{"reviewerID": "A1LCVSECISPGSO", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "BarryD99", "helpful": [35, 37], "reviewText": "In the past twenty years I've purchased thousands of dollars worth of A/V and PC equipment.  At $399 plus $10 per month for the programming, TiVo is my favorite.  OK, if I want to spend hours every week programming my VCR  (of which I own five), I can record all my favorite shows, but why bother  when TiVO does a much better job virtually automatically.  Since I  purchased Tivo in April, I haven't recorded anything on the VCR's.  I still  use them occasionally to play a rental movie not available on DVD.  For  those of you that may complain about the $10/month (or $200 one time)  charge for the programming data service, I would suggest that this is a  minor cost compared to what you are probably paying for cable or direct tv,  AND I would submit that the TiVo service will greatly enhance your ability  to utilize and manage the 50 to 250 channels that are available with cable  or satellite.Do I watch alot more TV than I did before?  Not really, but  now I always have something to watch that I'm interested in rather than  just watching what happens to be currently broadcasted.Did I consider  Replay?  Yes, also a nice product, but for my needs TiVO is better.  Will  the price drop by Christmas?  Probably, but at $399 why wait?  Enjoy it  today.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best  A/V Investment I've Made Since My Original Betamax", "unixReviewTime": 963446400, "reviewTime": "07 13, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A36VJLLJTI7TIA", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "Bill Lehecka", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "I received a great birthday present in 2000; the TiVo.  I can honestly say it's changed the way I view television (however corny their ad slogan is).I set up my TiVo in late September, and I haven't looked back since.  The setup took an extraordinary amount of time (at least 2 hours), but once I got rolling, everything else was pretty easy.  I can't tell you how much I enjoy taking my time to do things instead of rushing home to catch my favorite program.  I don't have to worry, because TiVo's got me covered.Not only has the TiVo recorded programs I like to watch, but it recommends show that I might watch (though the use of the Thumbs Up-Thumbs Down recommendations I give to specific shows), and I can say that some of the recommendations they've given have hit the nail right on the head.  The recommendations can be a little weird though.  I mean, I'm a guy who likes The Simpsons, but does that mean I'll like Rugrats as well?This is not a perfect unit, though.  Drawbacks include missing recording cues (although not entirely TiVo's fault, but you'd think some networks would get on the ball here and standardize when they start and stop a show).  You wouldn't know how many times I've said &quot;Oh, the recording started late again,&quot; or &quot;Why did you cut off the ending?!?!?&quot; Also the unit, in a quiet room, can be a little noisy.  When I'm watching a show late at night, I can hear the unit's hard drive churning.  Maybe I'm nitpicking, but I thought you would like to know.Another drawback is the inability to totally skip over commercials.  You can fast forward, sure.  You have to be good at timing the fast forward right so that when you hit play, you'll catch the show just after commercial.Yes, the product has drawbacks, but I can look past that for now and say that this product is amazing. In a couple of years my tune might change, but for now, make mine TiVo!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "It's changed my life", "unixReviewTime": 977097600, "reviewTime": "12 18, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A21AOHWYUQ3QEY", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "Bruce D. Namerow", "helpful": [31, 32], "reviewText": "I wasn't sure whether to give this Philips Tivo zero stars or five stars. Zero stars because the quality stinks. Five stars because it's such an amazing product.On the negative side, the modem on my Tivo went dead in just six months. After reading all the Amazon reviews, it appears that this is a VERY common problem that can't be ignored. It wouldn't be so bad if the warranty weren't so short and if Philips/Tivo support weren't so completely incompetent. It's now been five weeks and they still haven't returned my Tivo -- even though I had to pay for them to fix it! I'm told the delay is because they ran out of refurbished units to send me. I don't find that an acceptable excuse.Since I still believe that Tivo is the most amazing invention since the personal computer, I still definitely recommend you buy one.  Besides, it's not Tivo, but Philips that seems to have the quality problem (I'm not sure how the Sony versions rate on quality).But there are some steps you should take if you buy one:First, buy the extended warranty plan that most stores offer. You'll pay extra, but it will still be less then paying $100 for Philips to fix it. And store warranties last 3 years, unlike the awful 3 months labor, 1 year parts warranty that you get from Philips.Second, buy a special power strip that includes inputs for cable and telephone lines. This will stop any power surges from hitting your Tivo, which is what I suspect is causing a lot of these failures. (My Tivo died after during a mild thunderstorm.)Good luck!", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "READ THIS before you buy and SAVE A LOT OF TROUBLE!", "unixReviewTime": 1005609600, "reviewTime": "11 13, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "AF0QD2FT1ZFVH", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "Carl Dean", "helpful": [11, 31], "reviewText": "I have a cable system that has an A-B switch.  Tivo does not support this.  Their solution is to decide between using Tivo on &quot;A&quot; or  &quot;B&quot;.  And when I wanted to switch, it took a 2 hour set up.  Also, if your system requires a cable box you probably wont be able to  watch another channel while Tivo is recording. (you would need another  cable box or cable tuner of some sort)", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Beware!!", "unixReviewTime": 967075200, "reviewTime": "08 24, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "ALUNVOQRXOZIA", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "Conrad B. Senior", "helpful": [14, 18], "reviewText": "Are you like me and tired of watching 20 minutes of commercials every  hour--then you will love this product.  How valuable is your time?  How  much time do you waste watching commercials?  If you could cut that out,  what could you do with that extra time?Hit pause and whatever you are  watching is digitally recorded.  Go make a sandwich and pick up where you  left off, jump ahead of commercials.This unit is smart.  Want instant  replay?  It's got it.  Want to preselect programs to watch?  It can.  Want  to give a program thumbs down and have it remember you don't like it.  It  can.  Want 30 hours of record capabilty--IT HAS IT.Buy this recorder.  You will NEVER regret it.  It will change the way you watch TV.  It makes  VCR's look prehistoric.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The COOLEST and BEST Product on the Market", "unixReviewTime": 965260800, "reviewTime": "08 3, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A3JMQ363OSCWU2", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "D. S. Lunsford \"scottnj\"", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "I've owned my Tivo for a month now and couldn't imagine not having it!  I've completely stopped using my VCRs to record TV.  In the past month, I've change my cable service over to digital and reconfiguring the Tivo  system was a snap.  This is the best electronics purchase I've ever made...", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "No Regrets!", "unixReviewTime": 949881600, "reviewTime": "02 7, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A3AVNLTWWNIEO9", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "Emacee", "helpful": [102, 124], "reviewText": "I bought it.  I sent it back. The equipment is not completely reliable yet.  I had the system freeze up twice.  I became slow and unresponsive to commands on other occasions.  (Consumer Reports said they had problems with  system crashes on two units.)  Despite the potential unreliability of hard  disks and the cost of the system, no extended warranty protection is  available if you buy online (some brick and mortar retailers do offer them  indepdently of Philips). You have two people to deal with if there is a  problem: Philips and Tivo and they both kept pointing fingers at each other  and claiming it's they other guy's problem.  Hold times were tolerable when  I first got the unit but had become excessive by the time I sent it back.  The TV listings are not up to date -- despite the fact that new program  data are downloaded daily.  I also encounter occasional errors in their  listings. The software still needs work.  The system got better at picking  programs for me at first but as I entered still more thumbs up/thumbs down  data I got more garbage.  The program is artificial stupidity - not  artificial intelligence.  I gave thumbs up to &quot;Singing in the  Rain&quot; and started getting everything Debbie Reynolds was ever in. The  Season Pass also needs work.  It's OK for broadcast networks.  But if I  want a season pass for Homicide: Life on the Streets on Court TV, it  records the same episode four times each day (same thing on any cable  channel that repeats broadcasts of particular programs). Even if you're not  waiting for the price to come down, my advice is wait for them to get it  right.  The current version should be labelled a &quot;Beta&quot; version.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "I like the concept but the technology isn't there yet.", "unixReviewTime": 944611200, "reviewTime": "12 8, 1999"}
{"reviewerID": "AFP6C8GPJ4SBQ", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "E. Yasi", "helpful": [186, 189], "reviewText": "TiVo's claim that they'll change the way you watch TV is completely true.  Being able to pause or replay whatever you're currently watching to grab a snack, answer a call, etc. is great.  You can't imagine how helpful it is  to have almost two weeks of programming information available to pick and  chose what to record for the next few days.I'd recommend the 30hr unit  over the 14hr if you can afford it.  After you start searching the two week  guide by program name, channel name, favorite channels, or by time of day  you'll quickly find plenty of things you want to record.DirecTV viewers  will especially find this useful...it makes all those channels much more  manageable, and I prefer the TiVo on-screen guide to the one my DSS box  provided.All of the TiVo menus are well thought out, attractive, and  *very* easy to use.  They include lots of cables - including S-Video, a  phone jack splitter (nice touch), and other goodies so almost anyone will  find everything they need to hook TiVo up right out of the box.  The User's  Guide is helpful too, for people who are a little less sure of themselves  around stuff like this.I picked TiVo over ReplayTV because of their  close alliance with DirecTV (DirecTV has invested in them), and from  reading other people's comments in newsgroups and other forums.  After I  spent about half an hour going through the program guide and giving various  programs 'thumbs up' or 'thumbs down' ratings (one of the cooler features  of TiVo), it came up with a whole bunch of other programs it suggested I  might like.I'm probably sounding like a company spokesperson, but I'm  not, I'm just a *very* happy new user of TiVo!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "For once, a product that lives up to its ad slogans", "unixReviewTime": 945388800, "reviewTime": "12 17, 1999"}
{"reviewerID": "A1M542G46C8C7N", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "G. Brown \"Race Fan\"", "helpful": [44, 46], "reviewText": "I started out about a year or so ago with a 14 hour Tivo unit and LOVED it.  The problem was they lie about capacity... sort of.  14 hours or in the case of the 30 hour unit are really more like 6 hours and 11 hours with the recorder set to record at BEST quality...  anything lower and the picture looks bad. I then paid Tivo to send me a new unit that had been upgraded to 3 hours.... Then that was still not enough time with the system set at best quality.I finally found out I could upgrade the thing myself... so my recomendation is to get the cheapest on that you can and upgrade it.  This VOIDS you tivo warrenty but hey we all like to live on the edge right :)I now have a 117 hour Tivo because the company I used to upgrade my Tivo ([...]) added an 80GB disk and now instead of having to delete my recordings early or being more picky about what I record I can go nuts and record anything and everything.  I even saw on one website ([...]) a guy who has a 151+ hour Tivo.Another good website for Tivo upgrade information is [...]  They have parts for sale and directions on how to upgrade your Tivo (The easiest is a 14 hour unit since you just add a &quot;blessed&quot; drive)happy Tivoing and hack away!PS If you can't tell I love this thing!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Get the smallest cheapest Tivo you can and upgrade", "unixReviewTime": 980899200, "reviewTime": "01 31, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A2R5SM2C87PDOQ", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "GothCrone", "helpful": [26, 27], "reviewText": "I ordered and received my 30 hour TIVO from Amazon.com last week.  I have a home theatre system, with all components (CD, DVD, Phono, Digital Cable Box, &amp; VCR) connected through a Yamaha top-of-the-line A/V receiver.  As none of the example set-ups in the TIVO manual remotely matched mine,  and despite the fact that normally I'm pretty good at this type of thing,  after about three hours of complete failure, I was positively stumped.  I  finally had to call TIVO's customer care support.  And this is where I am  SO very impressed!  I was absolutely blown away when the TIVO  representative stayed ON the phone for over an hour with me as I crawled  behind my entertainment center with a flashlight and my cordless phone,  with various cables in my teeth!  ;-)  She walked me through every step and  with persistence and effort on both our parts, finally we got everything  hooked up and &quot;talking to&quot; each other.  I've never experienced  customer service like this before on anything I've ever bought.  Amazing!  And as for the TIVO and how it is working now - great and I love it!  Only  thing I didn't like was the fact TIVO/Philips have truly overlooked the  customer's with home entertainment systems, calling a set up like mine,  &quot;advanced&quot; - from what I can tell more and more consumers are  going to the &quot;advanced&quot; systems so it would be good to see TIVO  include hookup examples for &quot;advanced&quot; systems in their future  product manuals.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Amazing Set-Up Assistance!", "unixReviewTime": 954720000, "reviewTime": "04 3, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A3II7EVHKX41Z9", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "Larry Stein \"MrChiGuy\"", "helpful": [21, 21], "reviewText": "After running a phone line behind my stereo cabinet (which I could luckily do myself), I connected my TiVo to my VCR, Stereo and Cable Box in about 15  minutes. When I powered on the unit, it took me a few seconds to realize  that my VCR input needed to be set to &quot;Line&quot; before I could see  the TiVo screens. The on-screen guided setup procedure went without a  hitch; the most difficult and time-consuming part was determining the  remote control codes to allow the TiVo remote to turn on both my TV and  Stereo system at the same time. I also had a few false starts configuring  the system to control my cable box. The first time TiVo dialed into the  main computer, the actual connection lasted only about 15 minutes, but TiVo  busily sorted and indexed the downloaded information for about 2 1/2 hours.  The system is so quiet, that if it weren't for the green light on the  front, I'd have no idea it was even powered on. The software and the  screens are well designed and very user friendly. I have friend who can  barely change the channels on his TV using a remote control, and he was  easily able to navigate the system and program it to record his favorite  shows (I've been giving demos to all of my friends). The system can  automatically update its own software every day, so I imagine there are  many more features coming soon. Everyone I show TiVo to has some great  suggestions for improvements, and I hope to see some of them in future  versions. To summarize in 2 words: Buy it. I admit I was skeptical at  first, but I'm a 100% TiVo fan now.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Everything it is advertised to be.", "unixReviewTime": 965088000, "reviewTime": "08 1, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2CKNYM4Y87MYC", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "mdchachi \"mdchachi\"", "helpful": [54, 56], "reviewText": "This is a great, revolutionary product.  It's pretty much as great as everybody says.  I've had mine for a couple of months now and have no major complaints.  However, in case Tivo's reading, all my (minor) complaints  follow:Tivo comes with all kinds of hardware.  Everything except a coax  splitter which you need to buy if you want to continue using the tuner on  your TV.  (Which I think would be just about everybody because you have to  do this if you want to watch live TV while Tivo's recording).The Season  Pass records all showings of a particular show no matter when or what  channel it's on.  However if you pick a show that's in syndication or a  cable show that's repeated often, you'll get many more than you actually  want.  It'd be better if a Season Pass was only good for one channel and  time period.  Also be nice if it were smart enough to not record additional  showings of the same episode.  Another bad thing about this is that it will  not allow you to create other Seasons Passes if it thinks it interferes  with the first one.  (Like say you only want a Seinfeld season pass for a  4pm showing but Seinfeld also runs at 9pm on some other channel; I can't  set up a season pass for some other 9pm show without disrupting the first).  Of course the way around this is to record by time but I think some  improvements can be made.When watching live TV, it keeps the last 30  minutes UNLESS you switch channels or a new show starts.  This means that  if I stop watching (without pausing) near the end of a show and a new show  starts in the meantime, I'll have lost the ability to go back and watch the  end of the show I was watching.  I don't see why they blow away the last 30  minutes when a new show starts, particularly if it's on the same  channel.As other people mentioned, it'd have been nice to have a  skip-forward feature so you could skip forward in increments of 30 seconds  or something.It'd be nice to have a menu option to have a less  conspicuous play bar (or to put it at the top of the screen instead of the  bottom).  It covers up things like Who Wants to be a Millionaire questions  until it times out and disappears.Sometimes the sound loses its top  frequencies such that it sounds like a bad speaker.  S sounds sound like  static.  This might be a function of the broadcast but live TV doesn't  sound that way.It'd be great to have a VHS record list feature so you  could record multiple programs to videotape all in one go.  Sometimes I  make tapes for my  overseas friends and having to record one 1/2 hour  program at a time is a pain in the rear.When scrolling through program  listings, it makes you wait a second before bringing up the next screen.  It should be pre-loading each screen in advance so it doesn't have to waste  this kind of time.Due to program scheduling, many times it will miss the  last 30 seconds or so of a broadcast (so you might miss that last joke  while the credits are scrolling).  It should give you an option where it  will always record a couple of minutes before/after a program (if there  isn't another program scheduled to be recorded immediately afterwards).I  guess that's about it.  Don't let all this scare you away.  It's an awesome  product and now that I have it, I wouldn't watch TV any other way.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great Product, could use some tweaks", "unixReviewTime": 958348800, "reviewTime": "05 15, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "AMLICZAK25GMM", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "Michael J. Dauria", "helpful": [18, 23], "reviewText": "I am amazed that more people don't own this product. TIVO is the next thing after the vcr, once it catches on everyone will want it.Basically TIVO is a really smart VCR. You watch TV and use the thumbs up and thumbs down buttons on the remote to tell tivo what shows you like and don't like. TIVO uses these suggestions and an internal TV Guide that it downloads everyday to figure out what shows you might like to watch. TIVO uses all this info to determine shows that you might like and records them.TIVO also has features to manually record and a Season Pass feature. The Season Pass is a feature where you tell tivo the name of a show and then TIVO automatically records this show anytime it is on. TIVO is always on 24/7 so it never misses a show.Beyond these features TIVO also lets you pause live TV, do instant replays of live TV and a ton of other features.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The best thing since sliced bread", "unixReviewTime": 975542400, "reviewTime": "11 30, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2B0HYERQR96HI", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "MikeCG \"MikeCG\"", "helpful": [20, 27], "reviewText": "Wow, I wrote this almost 10 years ago and I still love Tivo, but have graduated to two HD models.  I've used several DVRs rented by my cable company and they don't hold a candle to Tivo; the only advantage is they are a little less expensive. But you get what you pay for.  I still say: GET A TIVO!!There's not much one can add to 100 other reviews about TiVo.  All I can say is, if you don't have one, you don't know what you're missing.  Deciding whether or not to buy a Personal TV Recorder, which is what they  are called, is a \"no-brainer.\" BUY ONE!  The only decision is  whether to buy TiVo (versons sold by Phillips and Sony) or ReplayTV (sold  by Panasonic).Both systems require that they call in by local  telephone call each night to download program information about the  channels you receive locally, either by cable, satellite (Dish/DirecTV) or  antenna, and both charge for that service.  ReplayTV sells for about $200  more than TiVo, because the ReplayTV subscription charge is included in the  purchase price.  TiVo sells for about $200 less, but you must buy the  subscription.  The total cost is essentially the same.One advantage to  TiVo, that ReplayTV doesn't offer, is that you can also elect to subscribe  to TiVo by the month ($10) or year ($100) if you don't want to shell out up  front the $200 for the life-of-the-TiVo subscription.  ReplayTV  subscriptions are for machine life only. Both lifetime subscriptions are  tranferable to new owners, so you can sell it or give it to your kids when  the next PTVR generation comes along.Each consumer will have to make  up his or her own mind about which system to buy, but I urge you not be  misled by explanations saying ReplayTV subscriptions are \"free,\"  and TiVo subscriptions are more costly.  NOT TRUE.No matter which PTVR  you get, your TV life will never be the same. You'll wonder how you  survived without!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "TiVo Will Forever Change the Way You Watch TV!", "unixReviewTime": 963446400, "reviewTime": "07 13, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2396ASCFP9L7F", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "\"naomiii\"", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "I hesitated before buying a TiVo, because I wasn't sure if it was the best option for me. Now I can't believe that I ever lived without it! I've only had it for a month, but now whenever I watch TV somewhere without TiVo, I get so frustrated because I can't pause, rewind, have an instant replay, etc. I can't imagine living without the TiVo-- I hardly ever use my VCR anymore.Setting up the TiVo is not as easy as they make it out to be -- if you have cable box you may have to spend countless hours fiddling around behind your TV before you can get the TiVo to work, because it's meant to work with either Direct TV or a Satellite. Nevertheless, it DOES work with almost ALL TVs and set-ups, and after you first get it all set up, it's effortless to use. The interactive menu is intuitive and easy-to-use, so you'll be setting up Season Passes to record your favorite shows as soon as you start. You can search for shows to record by Time, Channel, Name or Genre, and you can get a &quot;Season Pass&quot; in order to record the show whenever it's on.I love always having a selection of shows I like ready for me to watch, instead of having to channel surf endlessly to find something. Though there may not be a full 30 hours of recording time on the TiVo (30 hours is only with &quot;Basic&quot; sub-par Quality picture-- and Best Quality you can only record 9 hours), I still find that I always have extra room left over to record my favorite shows. I've actually found that I don't watch MORE TV now that I have the TiVo, I just watch TV shows that I actually like, at times when I am available. I get more homework done now (no joke). If there is extra room available, the TiVo actually records TV Shows that it &quot;thinks&quot; that you would like, since you are able to rate TV Shows and Movies, it can choose similar ones that you might enjoy. For example, if you give &quot;Friends&quot; 3 thumbs up, it may record &quot;Seinfeld&quot; for you if you have extra room. If you don't want the shows it it records, you can simply delete them or give them a &quot;Thumbs Down&quot; rating. The more shows you rate, the better TiVo understands your personal tastes. The only thing I wish it could do is record on one channel while I watch another, but it is understandable that it cannot. Also, TiVo comes up with &quot;updates&quot; now and again to improve on its features, so if something isn't perfect now, it may be improved in the future. For example, some reviewers complained that while recording sports, TiVo would fail to record if the game went into overtime, but now TiVo has a feature which lets you &quot;cushion&quot; your recordings by however much time you want, to ensure that you don't miss anything.One of the best features by far is a the &quot;Live TV Guide&quot; -- if you just press the &quot;Live TV Guide&quot; button while watching TV, a menu pops up on top of the screen giving the name of the show or movie, a brief plot summary, who the actors are, when it started, when it ends and what's on after it. Watching TV was never so easy. Whenever I show my friends how TiVo works, they are amazed by how we can pause, go get a drink or go to the bathroom, then come back and fast forward through all the commercials. You'll also never have to say &quot;Wait! What happened?? I missed it!&quot; because you can simply rewind backwards in the program and watch it again.I know that I am gushing about this, but TiVo seriosly has changed the way I watch TV-- as many other reviewers have said, TiVo lets YOU control your TV, not the other way around. I think that I'll be using it for a long, long time from now, and I have no regrets about buying it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Say Goodbye to your VCR...", "unixReviewTime": 992390400, "reviewTime": "06 13, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A1ME5FUV8TPAK8", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "Nerdgirl \"dotcom\"", "helpful": [38, 41], "reviewText": "I am an early adopter of Tivo and it has completely changed the way that I watch TV.  I'm glad that people are finally catching on to what I've been saying for over a year which is:  TIVO IS THE COOLEST THING EVER.  The main thing that I hear from people when I try to explain the benefits of owning a Tivo is &quot;But I have a VCR - why would I want this?&quot;  I have put together a brief list of the benefits of owning a Tivo for you non-believers.1. I, too, own a VCR.  And with all the good intentions in the world of taping programs that I wanted to see - I NEVER DID.2. Aren't you sick of missing your favorite TV shows?  With Tivo you will never miss your favorite shows again - in addition, my little Tivo friend may help you find new favorite shows.3. Don't you hate commercials as much as the next guy?  With Tivo, you will never be forced to sit through another minute of those crappy commercials.  You will not even know what people are talking about as they discuss the new Bud commercial...you'll merely shake your head and know that those poor, unfortunate souls don't have a Tivo at home.4.  Don't you ever have to go to the bathroom in the middle of watching something?  I won't elaborate on that one - but wouldn't it be nice to pause your TV to jump up and answer the phone, grab a snack, etc... without having to worry about what you're going to miss.5.  You'll rent less movies.  Which also means that you'll save more money.  Forget renting.  Just pay for the premium channels that you were always to cheap to pay for before because you figured that you'd never watch that many movies.  Now you can watch them all.So, to sum up my little Tivo review - I have to say that you will completely streamline the way you watch TV when you get a Tivo.  Stop torturing yourself with the network's schedule that doesn't fit your schedule and make up your own.  With Tivo there is always something good on...what YOU want to watch.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Tivo is the best invention since sliced bread", "unixReviewTime": 971222400, "reviewTime": "10 11, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "ABZLC33PJO47S", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "Randall Dibb \"Randy\"", "helpful": [47, 58], "reviewText": "I bought TiVo in early 2000. I love it, but the unit has hadit's share of problems. The warranty is ONLY 90 DAYS! My unit had problems with the IR receiver in the unit not receiving the commands. (Yes, it was the IR receiver as I have two remotes and neither worked unless you were 1-2 inches from the unit). It was over 90 days, but I had called several times on this issue and FINALLY got them to exchange it without charging me... But they do not ship the new unit until they receive the old unit.  I sent that to Texas... and received a new one within a week.  The second unit was what they called DOA (Dead on Arrival). It didn't work either. (It says refurbished on the bottom). So now I am sending it back at another shipping cost.  Another issue is that this receiver 'learns' programs, actors, directors, etc. that you like. So, with each exchange, I lose all of the info it has learned. All of this will lead me to send a letter to the President of Philips, but even getting his name took two calls. When I explained why I wanted his name to the person who answered in New York City she hung up on me...", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "TiVo-Mine has died twice", "unixReviewTime": 965088000, "reviewTime": "08 1, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A231WM2Z2JL0U3", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "Rheumor", "helpful": [36, 52], "reviewText": "Here are thee shortcomings as I have seen them over the past year with  TiVo: 1) It is very sensitive to power surges or little brown-outs. When  the lights blink off in the house, the TiVo tends to lock up, and this  'frozen state' can only be reversed by unplugging it for a few secs and  then plugging it back in and waiting for it to cycle through its start-up  menu (2 mins). 2) &quot;Pause&quot;, which is by far the coolest thing  about TiVo for me (like &quot;pizza guy knocks, don't want to miss this  next play&quot;), is pretty time-limited. After 30 mins of pause, it starts  playing again. Once it starts playing again, you cannot get all the way  back to where you paused it. 3) &quot;Record&quot; is nice, but nowhere  near 30 hours at any resolution you could stand to watch. Even at the best  resolution, the picture is seriously degraded from the original. 4) I'm  getting a little tired of the $9.95 per month. I know I agreed to it, but  it really seems a little too much, considering I paid for the hardware and  the menu (which is what the $9.95 is supposed to be for) is no better than  what my digital cable provider or DSS system provides.Overall, I like  it, but it should be improved before getting 5 stars from anyone.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Great Idea, Still Needs Work.", "unixReviewTime": 968112000, "reviewTime": "09 5, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A36WEPNLF8S8P3", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "Steve Knows", "helpful": [16, 19], "reviewText": "I have to say, in general what the unit does and the service is pretty incredible.  Set up wasn't too difficult ( dish network ) just a bit time consuming.  Problem is after 2-3 month the units modem fails to work.  It cannot dial into tivo central for programming data.  It has been a real frustrating situation - setting up 3 units, having my tv majorly distubed after sending back the damaged unit and waiting for a replacement. and the fact that you are so spoiled with this that when you dont have it it drives you crazy! :-)  Im giving up on the phillips unit at least in my case and going to try out a sony unit.  perhaps Ill have better luck.. Also have to say the 50 minutes on wait for a tivo troubleshooter is a bit irritating to say the least - try doing it 4 or more times....", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "My unit has been replaced three times!", "unixReviewTime": 994377600, "reviewTime": "07 6, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A1LTZ8LRRWIE9N", "asin": "B00002SWHH", "reviewerName": "Thomas J. Wands \"tomwands\"", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "TIVO is amazing.  I am not much of a TV junkie but TIVO has me hooked.  Like most people I put in a long day at the job.  It is so nice to come home and actually have something I like to watch.  I am a big Twilight Zone  Fan.  Most &quot;Zones&quot; air either in the middle of the night or  during working hours.  I set my TIVO up to give me a season pass to the  program.  When I come home after work there are always at least 2 episodes  recorded for me to watch.  The only problem that I have is that sometimes  the audio does not match the video.  It's sort of like watching an old  Godzilla movie.  I have to go to the menu and restart the receiver to fix.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "TIVO Creates Couch Potatoes", "unixReviewTime": 952732800, "reviewTime": "03 11, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2SKVCKORF8J9Y", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "B. Surkan", "helpful": [23, 29], "reviewText": "I use my Palm V as an address book, calendar and to-do list, with a few digital notes. I also have the Dooney &amp; Bourke Palm V Case and the Palm travel kit.The Palm V is sleek and attractive, but has a few major flaws:1. The on button is not protected from being constantly activated by the case, causing the batteries to drain extremely fast.2. The flimsy cover that it comes with is not sufficient. Everybody that I know that has a palm, bought an additional case. The original case should at least be usable.3. The reset button does not clear memory, forcing me to wait for the batteries to die to clear it. No bulk delete option is provided.4. There is no USB option provided with the basic Palm for synching with USB devices.5. The rechargeable built-in battery is nice if you don't leave your cradle for more than a week, but nasty if you travel.In short, the Palm V has potential, but some simple design flaws and the need to buy a number of add-ons just to make it functional are simply unacceptable at that price tag.For my needs, I'm going to the REX 6000. It is far less expensive, much more portable, and provides both USB and PCMCIA synching out of the box.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Nice look, but missed the details", "unixReviewTime": 981417600, "reviewTime": "02 6, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "AY8Q1X7G96HV5", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "Chris Prinzivalli", "helpful": [112, 133], "reviewText": "Weighing in at just 4oz., it has the same anodized aluminum exterior and LCD screen as the Palm Vx handheld. Yet it has four times the memory of its predecessor, giving you more speed and more storage... Now, no matter how busy your life gets, you can keep it together in style... Keep all your meeting times, places, people, phone numbers and other information safely tucked away in this elegant device... 8MB of memory stores up to 10,000 addresses, 5 years of appointments, 3,000 to-do items, 3,000 memos, 400 e-mail messages, plus, there's plenty of room for extra add-on applications, books, language translators, image viewers, dictionaries, games, advanced calculators, and more... Use the HotSync cradle to quickly backup and exchange information between your PC and your Palm handheld, as well as any number of popular PIMs like Symantec ACT! and Microsoft Outlook. Long-life lithium ion batteries recharge themselves in the HotSync cradle in just minutes a day. A full charge lasts up to a month. Optional recharging kit available for road warriors... With the Palm V Modem, you can access your desktop PC remotely in just minutes using a standard phone line or GSM cellular connection. Now you can check e-mail, access information from the office, or schedule a group meeting. Customize your organizer with thousands of personal productivity and enterprise applications available today. IR PortBeam your business card, phone lists, memos, and add-on applications to other IR-enabled Palm OS devices. Use third-party beaming applications with IR-enabled phones, printers, etc. Items Included in the BoxPalm Vx handheld, Palm Desktop software, Applications for Palm Vx handheld, Rechargeable battery (internal), DB-25 Adapter, Getting Started Guide, 2 Stylii, Protective leather cover, Handbook, HotSync cradle, Adapter/recharger. A great advancement in the realm of the Palm Pilot, this unit is far more durable than the III or the VII series...", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Palm Pilot Vx...", "unixReviewTime": 972691200, "reviewTime": "10 28, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A3H9RTXHQ5H4UT", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "Deepak Krishnankutty", "helpful": [30, 30], "reviewText": "Last year, I helped my cousin install his Palm V to work with his desktop. Thought it was a neat device but, did not want to buy one for myself at the time; thinking that my laptop was good enough for what I need to do. Stupid decision !I finally bought myself a Palm Vx this August and it has changed the way I use and access information on the move. It's forte is dependable connectivity and it does that so well. The Vx ships with Chapura PocketMirror, which an excellent sync/conduit manager, optimised for Outlook users (97-2000) and is a breeze to set up. PocketMirror integrates seamlessly with Palm's own desktop manager - just follow the instructions and you will be able to hotsync all your data in Outlook, literally within minutes. The Vx also ships with AvantGo, which is perfect for those of you who want to browse your favourite websites off-line and on the move (it syncs with your chosen sites every time you hot-sync; just a push of a button away).There is no point dwelling on the number of addresses, memos, etc. that the Vx can store, since these are pretty much the industry standard with other brands too and realistically, it is unlikely that you will ever run out of space for these items. The 8MB in the Vx comes in handy when you use applications such as AvantGo and if you tend to keeps hundreds of messages in your Outlook inbox (like I do!).I have recently added Documents to Go ([...] a 3rd party add-on. This software brings Word and Excel files into my Vx and now, I no longer have to use my laptop for every important document or spreadsheet I need to access quickly in a meeting or whilst on the phone - it's all there in the Palm of my hand (pun intended) !If I had a Palm wish, I guess a colour version of the Vx would be the ultimate; though, knowing the folks at Palm, this is probably around the corner (since they have already released a colour version of the III series - the IIIc). I guess I would also like to have my 'Sent Items' mailbox from Outlook in my Palm - there probably is software available somewhere on the Net which does this, but I haven't found it as yet.Bottom-line. Spend the money on a Palm Vx, you prospective PDA shoppers ! You will not regret it !", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Palm Vx ...... look no further for a connected PDA !", "unixReviewTime": 970099200, "reviewTime": "09 28, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "AJZPEEL1HULPU", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "dshaug1", "helpful": [25, 25], "reviewText": "I bought the Palm Vx as my first Palm Pilot and it's worth every cent I paid for it. It may not have as many features as the new ones, like a color screen, expansion slot, or Bluetooth compatibility, but it's inexpensive and very reliable. It's run downloaded applications smoothly and with no trouble. It's got plenty of memory (8MB), a rechargeable battery, and is thin and light. It's even better when you add accessories like the Palm Portable Keyboard or the Travel Charger. If you're looking for a basic Palm Pilot for a surprisingly inexpensive price, this is for you.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great First Palm Pilot", "unixReviewTime": 1038614400, "reviewTime": "11 30, 2002"}
{"reviewerID": "A2WV8Y608V90IJ", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "Erica Ford", "helpful": [15, 17], "reviewText": "The Palm Vx is a great PDA for three reasons.First, it is compatible with the wireless Omnisky service, which will allow to check time sensitive E-mail AND check to see if your flight is delayed.  I am a road warrior, so this is a big plus since it can let me know if I have time to relax a little longer before waiting around at the gate for the plane to permit boarding.Second, it has a great form factor.  For those of you who have never owned a PDA before, the form factor gets important over time.  You may think that it isn't important, but anyone who needs a PDA needs it to be small.  If this wasn't the case, try lugging around a heavy laptop and you will know what I mean.Third, and perhaps the most important reason is that this is compatible with all Palm applications.  I know there are other PDAs that are not Palm but use the Palm OS, such as Handspring, and the Sony CLE, but some apps do not work unless you have a geniune Palm.  For example, Dinkypad doesn't scroll in Handspring, but it does so on an original Palm.Also, when you buy a Palm, you can be sure that the upgrades to the OS that Palm releases will be compatible.The only negative thing I have to say about the Vx is that it doesn't go as fast as the Handspring Platinum or Prism, since they have the newer Motorola processor.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "great pda", "unixReviewTime": 977356800, "reviewTime": "12 21, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A3IBOQ8R44YG9L", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "Eric Antonow", "helpful": [29, 31], "reviewText": "If you begin to use this as an organizer -- address and calender -- it puts the dissheveld life in shape. But when start taking notes, downloading databases, restaurant and movies listings it changes everything. This becomes the friendly resource it should be -- reminder of things and rememberer of others -- what time does that store close? Given the Sync capabilities with web-based services -- Vindigo and AvantGo -- there not as much additional value in the VII. All movies listings are current, most key phone numbers handy, etc. The extra memory does come in handy as you enthusiasm baloons. I do recommend an additional case that is a little more protective.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Changes everything", "unixReviewTime": 972086400, "reviewTime": "10 21, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A1IU7S4HCK1XK0", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "Joanna Daneman", "helpful": [62, 64], "reviewText": "The Palm Vx is really a standard-setter. Small footprint, great connectivity to the PC and to mail programs like Outlook. Many, many applications written for it, some shareware, some you can purchase. Easy synchronization via the cradle interface, which is also the recharging unit.Here are the pros:Small, lightweight, fits in a shirt pocket. Standard OS that is widely used. LOOOOOOOONG battery life. Plenty of memory for most text-based application. (8MB) Plenty of peripherals like a sexy little keyboard, a combo ballpoint pen-stylus, travel adapter kits,  car battery charger, IR exchange which works quite well.Cons: It's fragile. Even in the brushed steel folding case I bought, the screen broke when it slipped from my hand. It's Palm OS, which means it doesn't have the advantages of the Pocket PC (former Windows CE) OS to run PowerPoint, (there is a new program for the Pocket PC that lets you view and hear PowerPoint.) It doesn't have color display. The screen font could be clearer (there are better ones on other PDA's) The telephone and wireless stuff isn't in it (that's either the Palm VII with built-in wireless or other brands.) No MP3 player, no voice recorder. And the battery pack is not removable, although it lasts plenty long.Should you buy it? If you want an organizer and email reader, this is excellent. It's what I use every day. The long battery life is a real boon to the traveler. It packs a lot for the money. The optional accessories are priced too high, but this is a complaint against the industry in general. You buy the basic unit, but to add some useful doo-dads, you can rack a significant percentage of the purchase price in no time.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "The standard that set the standards for handheld PDA's", "unixReviewTime": 986601600, "reviewTime": "04 7, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A1TNK82XJQ0XPK", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "Jonathan DeWoskin", "helpful": [77, 77], "reviewText": "I've owned a few palm pilots over the past several years.  I switched to the Palm Vx because my Palm III gave out after months of abuse riding in my back pocket.  The Vx is solidly built, very reliable and never needs batteries.  I use mine heavily and sometimes forget to recharge it in the cradle.  I've found that the battery lasts about three weeks with heavy use as long as you don't use the backlight.  I now use my Palm Vx with my laptop running Windows 2000 and synchronize my data using the infrared port.  The cradle is just a charge stand for me!  If you're nervous about buying this product... relax!  I teach computer skills to executives in the Chicago area.  The learning curve for Palm devices is about 20 minutes.  There is a shorthand called &quot;graffiti&quot; that you will need to learn to write in your information, but you can also use your computer or a separately available keyboard to enter in your data.  Newer and more powerful palm devices have been introduced since I bought mine, but the Vx is an excellent value now that the price has dropped.  And it's still the smallest!  If you're looking for a PDA to handle your personal and business information and do not need to display color photos, videos or play MP3s, the Palm Vx is perfect.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "You won't understand how you lived without one!", "unixReviewTime": 995414400, "reviewTime": "07 18, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A1BJQJZUQI20FC", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "JustAFilmGuy \"JustAFilmGuy\"", "helpful": [40, 64], "reviewText": "The Palm V is the second Palm Product that I have owned.  (After purchasing a Palm Pro and experiencing numerous problems, I upgraded to the V, hoping to salvage my large database of entered addresses.)  And, for the second time, I am EXTREMELY disappointed with the Palm Products.  BOTH Palm devices displayed the same problems, specifically:  (1) after a few months of ownership, the screen response begins to fail, requiring almost daily recalibrations of the Digitizer;  (2) many attempted recalibrations of the digitizer simply fail, because the screen become SO far out of alignment, that the user can NOT enter necessary menu selections to even request a digitization;  (3) attempted Full Device Resets become impossible, since repeated Full Resets begin to no longer properly reset the device; (4) as the screen begins to fail, the ability to enter keystrokes in the Graffiti language begins to decrease, forcing a user to rely on the screen's slow and tiny &quot;QWERTY&quot; keyboard; and (5) the Operating system still lacks simple security, such as permitting a user to set the device to automatically power off with a password lock (if a user wants a security shut-down, a user has to step through several screen strokes in order to EXPLICITLY shut the device off with a password...no automated lock is available on power down).", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Palm Products a Design Failure", "unixReviewTime": 993427200, "reviewTime": "06 25, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A9U1BQILTMSMM", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "Laura Haggarty", "helpful": [28, 30], "reviewText": "I bought my husband a Palm in March as an early Father's Day present and  after watching how it changed his life I decided to get one for  myself.The Palm organizes my life. I'm a part-time working mom and I've  got a zillion things to keep track of. The appointment book is great, I can  set alarms for myself and make sure I don't forget the kids piano lesson or  that meeting with the school board. The address book keeps track of  everyone I need to, and organizes them into various categories that I can  define (Personal, Business, PTA Volunteers, whatever.) There is simply a  TON of shareware that can be downloaded, from games for the kids to  professional productivity apps, from spreadsheets to flat file databases,  from medical billing codes to exercise schedule trackers. Anything you can  think of is most likely available.The part I like the best is not only  can I synch the Palm with my own laptop (including email and news websites)  but I can also beam things back and forth with my husband. That way he  knows where I'm going to be and I know where he's going to be. No more  scribbled notes on the kitchen calendar for us! And the Palm Desktop  software can have multi-users so we can even synch to each other's computer  if we like, rather than beaming individual items.All in all this little  piece of hardware is one of the best purchases I've made in years. The only  thing it needs is a case to hold a business card or two, but those are  available all over for purchase from third parties. If you've been thinking  of getting one of these, don't hesitate, go for it!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Get one and organize your life!", "unixReviewTime": 969062400, "reviewTime": "09 16, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A1MJMYLRTZ76ZX", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "magellan", "helpful": [20, 20], "reviewText": "I have owned both a Palm Vx and IIIc (my current model) and they are great products. Although I have had my IIIc for almost a year, and my Vx for 6 months before that, I am still just as amazed at how useful it is as when I first bought it. These devices are not toys. They will help you organize you life in a way you would never had thought possible, and I am still thinking of new ways to use all the time. I just noticed something interesing about my Palm and thought I'd mention it here. A minute ago I put my Palm in its cradle to do a hot sync. I pushed the button but nothing happened. I tried it again but again nothing.Then I noticed there was a reminder notice on the screen. I cleared it by tapping the &quot;Okay&quot; button, and after that I was able to hot sync.Apparently the Palm OS considers a reminder notice to be at a lower interrupt level than a hot sync, which, if you think about it, is probably true, since you wouldn't want to miss a reminder notice because it got blown away by the hot sync screen.Just one more thing that shows how well-made and thought out these little gadgets are.One other thing. I also have a Compaq iPAQ, which I also have become very attached to, in addition to my Palm. Although the iPAQ hot sync process is a little easier than the Palm (you just put it in the cradle and the unit is automatically detected, you don't have to hit a button as with the Palm), the Palm does have one advantage here. I can hot sync when I'm dialed in and on-line with the modem in use. The iPAQ uses a USB port, which looks for a free COM port to work with, and this conflicts with the modem. When I try to hot sync while using the modem, I get a message that there is a conflict and it won't hot sync. This is despite the fact that my system has two COM ports and the Microsoft Windows diagnostics shows the second COM port as free and not in use.However, one interesting thing the iPAQ does is you can work with it while it is hot synching. You still can't do that for the Palms.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A comment on hot-synching", "unixReviewTime": 991785600, "reviewTime": "06 6, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A2UREP3Z9EU6V5", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "Mark", "helpful": [174, 175], "reviewText": "The time arrived for me to upgrade from my trusty old Palm V. I was running short on memory, so that left the Palm IIIc, Vx and Jornada 540 for consideration.I tried the IIIc for a month. Found the color screen a  pleasure to work with. There are not that many 3rd party apps in color yet,  but that appears to be changing fast. I liked the TinySheet Excel  compatible spreadsheet in color. The black on white screen is very readable  for e-books. Battery life was acceptable. On a 3 week business trip I had  to recharge it only once. The downside for me is size, the comfort factor.  You can NOT comfortably carry a Palm in a shirt pocket. I carry it in my  pants pocket, with the V I would forget I had it until I needed it. The  IIIc, it was just always 'there'. The only other gripe I have is that it's  almost impossible to read the screen outside. Something I took for granted  on the monochrome V. Bright daylight however fully washes out color  screens.  I REALLY like the small updates to the new PalmOS. Eg. the  little shortcut bar that appears at the bottom of the screen for menu  shortcuts is an excellent innovation. It makes cutting and pasting as fast  as with the PC using the keyboard.I used the Jornada for 2 weeks before  I returned it. As my expectations weren't that high from my previous  exposure to the platform I can't say that I was dissappointed. However, I  still don't think MS is up to par. On the balance still more 'clicks' are  needed than on a Palm. I couldn't find those easy to use 3rd party freeware  apps such as the NY crossstreet finder, on PocketPC. On face value I liked  Excel, but I found it's small differences with the PC version annoying.  Knowing one, I made assumption about the other that didn't always pan out.  The high resolution of the screen is nice. For e-books the Jornada would be  good, if not for the poor passive matrix screen. For example, on the plane,  I could put the IIIc on the tray in front of me, and read at an angle. This  is impossible with the Jornada screen. For basic PDA functions it is  adequate. I feel the apps still are a bit sluggish. Playing MP3's is fun,  but with 2 songs at CD quality, memory is depleted which makes it  impracticle for multimedia, unless you spend more to expand memory. Forget  playing MP3's in the background while doing other work, the device slows  down to a crawl. Size wise, the Jornada is a bit bigger and heavier than  the IIIc, which to me is a problem as I already explained. Battery life  seemed shorter than the IIIc, though it may be subjective because it was on  a lot, while learning the PocketPC platform.The Palm Vx is basically a  faster Palm V with more memory. Just got it yesterday and I already love  it. This is the one I'm keeping. I suppose that after getting used to the  size and weight of the Palm V, there is no going back. However, I'm glad  that I went through the hassles of trying out the other 2 models. I learned  a few things:1) Size matters.2) Until technology for multimedia  matures, color screens do not add significant value to justify their impact  on size and battery life.3) PocketPC looked good on face value, but  didn't go the distance, however, I do believe that as technology advances,  multimedia such as MP3 playback will be great to have. I hope that by that  time Palm will have the capability.4) 3rd party apps add tremendous  value. Something I forgot until I couldn't find my favourite little add-ons  that make life easy, such as AccountManager, cross street finder etc.All  in all, the best favor you can do yourself is getting one. Got my parents a  Palm V 2 months ago, now I have to get them another one so they stop  fighting over it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Currently the best PDA on the market", "unixReviewTime": 958176000, "reviewTime": "05 13, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2E2I580OO3HET", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "M. Broderick \"mikebinok\"", "helpful": [35, 39], "reviewText": "When my Palm V was stolen last May, I went right out and bought a Palm Vx to replace it!  Upfront, I should address the comment of the reviewer below who complained of losing his data when the device crashed.  The Palm Vx comes with software that allows you to create a copy of all your Palm data on your computer.  If you lose the Palm data for some reason (or the computer data), you can restore the lost data with a couple of mouse clicks. The Palm comes with a &quot;cradle&quot; that is used for recharging and for linking to the computer.  When my Palm was stolen, I easily restored my information into my new Palm Vx.  The process of storing data takes about 15 seconds, and literally just takes a button push after you have put your Palm in the cradle. I should mention that in 18 months of extensive use, I've never &quot;lost&quot; my data due to software failure.  I did lose it when my Palm was stolen of course, but was  easily able to replace it. I find two main uses for my Palm--As a scheduler, I can enter something I want to be reminded of at a future date, and have the Palm alert me at a specified time (typically five minutes before the meeting starts, for meetings at my work).  You can easily view all the items in place for each day, and there is also a weekly view.  This can be done years in advance, and doesn't have to be for work stuff--I have a gasket in an underwater camera which needs to be replaced in May, 2002, and I have entered a reminder to alert me at that time! The other thing I use it for is as a way to find &quot;forgotten&quot; information.  I make and store memos of important conversation or important information.  Also, I make notes in the &quot;address book&quot; of key information about people--Things I've discussed with them, or areas of expertise they have.  I can use the &quot;find&quot; feature on my Palm to locate a term.  So if I want to know what conversations I've had about widgets, or who I have talked to that knows about widgets, I can enter &quot;widget&quot; in the find feature, and I will be shown a list of all my memos that mention widgets in the text, and anyone in my address book who I listed as being widget-related!  Incidentally, I'll also get a list of any appointments in my calendar that mention widgets. If you are a busy person (and not just a business type, students, or homemakers may benefit as well) I believe you will be able to make good use of a Palm Vx.  You may be equally satisfied with a Handspring, or with other makes of Palm, though.  The two great advantages I see with the Palm Vx (or Palm V, if you can still find one) are that the profile of the device is very slender--It fits in my front slacks pocket without leaving a substantial bulge.  Second advantage is that the internal battery provides power for a week to two weeks of use, and can be recharged by resting in the cradle. No need to buy replacement batteries, or juggle them around replacing them.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I love mine....", "unixReviewTime": 976752000, "reviewTime": "12 14, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "AT4UTUQP51RZG", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "MFlat", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "After using a Handspring, but going through batteries too quickly, I decided to upgrade to this timeless PDA. I have no complaints with it other than the serial sync is a lot slower than the USB sync. I love the built-in battery, metal case, and slim size. I fit this in my pocket and it is a lot lighter than my wallet ;) Now that the m500 discounts have hit, the Vx is coming down to very attractive prices....", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A classic...", "unixReviewTime": 1001635200, "reviewTime": "09 28, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "AY62TN9VGKI2Z", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "Mitchell Small", "helpful": [36, 36], "reviewText": "I've owned my Palm Vx for about a year and a half now. Despite the hype over much higher priced units, I still think it's one of the best PDAs out there.What I Like 1. Memory, and lots of it. If 8 Mb does not sound like a lot, think of what you're using a PDA for. There's plenty of room for the phone book and appointment book. That's 80% of what I use my Palm for. I've never run out memory. 2. Lots of freeware and cheap shareware add-ons. The most useful is the new Palm PDF Reader from Adobe. I can take important documents with me as a PDF and have them as a look up document. Other nifty utilities I've picked up include a travel alarm clock with World Time Zones, IP Calculator and some neat games to pass the time. Coming on strong are text document readers and databases. 3. Good monochrome display with adjustable contrast. Sure color on PDAs is a hot topic, but from what I've seen, color is not worth it on a PDA. The color is poor and it really decreases battery life. 4. Built in rechargabe power and long battery life. No hassle with batteries: drop it in the cradle and it recharges. I've gone as long as three weeks without recharging.What I Don't Like 1. I had to add PocketMirror to synch with Outlook. When I upgraded my desktop, the Outlook synch was lost until I purchased a new PocketMirror. I have no gripe with the performance, I just wish this was a standard feature 2. No expansion capability. I know I said it has enough memory, but I wish I could add an MP-3 player or use SmartMedia for archive storage. 3. It looks so nice I have to watch out someone dosen't &quot;adopt&quot; mine!PDA's are what most people really need when they say they need a laptop. If you really do need portable spreadsheets or data bases and total e-mail management capabilities, you *do* need a laptop and no PDA is going to fulfill your needs. A PDA is a handy electronic version of the old standby appoinment book with some adapatability to other tasks. As for the current crop of hype topics: Wireless? It's a solution in search of a problem. Color? Keep it on the big screen where it belongs.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "A Classic and Still The One To Compare Others To", "unixReviewTime": 997056000, "reviewTime": "08 6, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A1ME5FUV8TPAK8", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "Nerdgirl \"dotcom\"", "helpful": [99, 103], "reviewText": "So here is my little tale.  I began my whole Palm expedition several years ago with a Palm Professional (yes, back in the day).  That worked out just fine for the time, but being a gadget junkie, I had to get the Palm V when it came out.  And can I say how much better it was?!?  Not only did you not have to deal with batteries, but you didn't have the bulk that the Palm Pro had.  A few other cool things - the cradle that has a place for your stylus.  This may not seem like a big thing until you leave you stylus on your desk and go home and realize that you need it. And I never had any problems with the software. So, as it was I was completely happy with my little, stylish Palm V.Then Handspring came out.  And I had to have that - for the MP3 player.  So I got rid of the Palm and got on the waiting list for a little iMac colored Handspring.  I was super excited - more memory and the cool Springboard feature seemed like it would be nice.  What a disappointment I was in for after having owned the Palm V.  First of all, my stupid Handspring crashed all the time.  Second, it ate batteries like a hog - where the Palm V didn't need batteries because it has the recharable Lithium Ion battery.  Third, it is the same bulkiness as the Palm Pro.  Fourth, there was no place for the stylus. And last, but definetely not least, the springboard module's turned out to be a joke - the release dates on them kept slipping.  I guess part of my problem is being an early adopter - but I sure did miss my Palm.So I gave in and did what any gadget junkie would do.  I sold the Handspring and upgraded to a Palm Vx.  And happy happy happy am I.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Why you should buy a PalmVx vs Handspring", "unixReviewTime": 970531200, "reviewTime": "10 3, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A6ZPLVAUQ6695", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "neurotome \"neurotome\"", "helpful": [54, 56], "reviewText": "I am a busy doctor, a Macintosh user, and an avid Palm enthusiast.  Here is my bottom line: if you don't have a Palm Vx, you have to get one, right  now.The address book alone is worth the price of admission, keeping  hundreds of names, phone numbers, addresses, and e-mail addresses instantly  accessible (and categorizable and keyword searchable!)  The date book  instantly makes obsolete all those little paper-based 'pocket organizers'.  And the note pad and to-do list are just the thing for jotting this or  that.  Synchronization with a USB Mac is seamless and the Mac software,  based on Claris Organizer, is quite good.  (Be sure and buy the 3Com Palm  USB kit; other 3rd party USB-to-serial adapters I tried didn't work.)But  where the Palm really shines is in the 3rd party software, much of which is  free, that is available over the web.  Epocrates for doctors (a hypertext  drug guide a la the famous Pocket Pharmacopoeia) will become your portable  brain for drug selection and dosing.  And AvantGo, a service that allows  daily downloading of nearly any text-based web site into your Palm, is  highly useful; I use it for news (general and medical), sports scores,  current movie showtimes in my area, 5-day weather forecasts, and a daily  joke.  It eases the pain of spending 36 hours straight in the hospital.  Vindigo, a free city guide to restaurants and nightlife, is great but takes  too long to sync every day (adds about 5 minutes to a normally 2 minute  sync) so I took it off.There are also freeware amusements (Mulg,  DopeWars, and C.A. Explorer are currently installed on mine) and electronic  books (Victor, Adams, and Ropper's pocket neurology text, for instance)  that may be of use to you.  8 MB is plenty for all of the above - I have 4  MB to spare.The batteries recharge overnight in the cradle and last a  long, long time.  I would offer 2 caveats: 1,  Mac Outlook Express won't  interface with the nice e-mail app (Eudora does, though, if you want to  switch.) 2,  You can't just carry the Palm around in your pocket.  It'll  fall out onto the floor and the screen will crack.  Get either the Deluxe  Carrying Case or the Leather Belt Case.  I have one of each and prefer the  belt case for practicality and fall-proofing; if I was worried about  looking professional I might use the deluxe case in my white coat top  pocket instead.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Doctor, Mac User says: Gotta have it!", "unixReviewTime": 966556800, "reviewTime": "08 18, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "AM4ZQJ0IORVWG", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "Rob \"Revuman\"", "helpful": [46, 49], "reviewText": "If you've been doing you're homework on all of the PDA's out there now then you probably have heard all about those &quot;palm&quot;top computer systems.  What I've found that is most disturbing about those palmtops is  that they have so much more than you need, are larger, have reduced battery  lifes and are about twice as expensive as the wonderous piece of equipment  I am reviewing now.The Palm Vx is the latest and, in my opinion, the  greatest Palm of all the ones that 3Com have produced.  Using the latest  version of the palm OS, this device comes loaded with 8 megs of ram, a  battery that will last up to a month on one charge, enough programs to  organize your entire life, and an easy to learn writing technique called  graffiti.  And although it may not be quite as accurate as on the more  expensive PDA's, it does the job, and there is also a built in keypad that  can be used to input information.Syncronization with your computer or  laptop is simple too.  Just place the palm in it's handy-dandy charging  station (which is included) and hit the HotSync button.  All of your days  notes, scheduals, information, and whatever is easily backed up to your  hard drive.  And anything that you add to the computer transfer program  will be uploaded to the palm Vx.  In short, the setup is easy, the programs  are user friendly, and did I mention it only weighs 4 oz!  Also, unlike  it's palm bretheren (mainly the Palm III's), which have a hokey plastic  casing, this palm has a very sleak magnesium casing that is both stylish  and that just feels damn good in your hand.However, it does have it's  downsides.  For starters, the built in IR (infrared port) is almost useless  beyond 4 inches away which means that the transfer function between two  palms, although nice, isn't very useful in most real world situations.  Hell you can't even beam a signal across and empty room.  Second, unlike  it's cousin, The Visor, which was produced by the company who had the  original idea for the Palm, it has no extra memory slot and therefore  cannot have extra memory added to it.  However, since there is not much  that would use all 8 megs on the Palm Vx, you wouldn't need to expand your  memory anyway.  And thirdly, expect to buy a real case for the Palm  immediatly after your initial purchase since all the palm comes with is a  cardboard cover in leather that is attached to a stylus pen and that fits  in one of the two pen slots on the palm.In general, I find that the  palm Vx surpasses it's more expensive competitors in every way; from price  to simplicity, from form to function.  And if you need to get your life in  order without dropping a boatload of money on a color screen and useless  extras, then this is your best bet.  And to put it simply, I wouldn't trade  my Palm for any &quot;palm&quot;top PDA if you paid me.If you're still  curious about the more complex PDA's, go check out my review for the  Cassiopia E-115.  Enjoy!Revuman:  Hey!  Can ya let me outta the screen  please?  peace!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Best Organizer on the market, hands down", "unixReviewTime": 957830400, "reviewTime": "05 9, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2RL9JHYNEJ1QR", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "SH in Tampa \"SPH\"", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "... I wish that I had purchased a Handspring Visor instead.I agree with all the positive comments that the other reviewer make regarding this unit.  The unit is robust (helpful if you drop it), convenient (fits nicely into your pocket), has easy to use software and comes with enough memory that you can download a lot of mail to read offline.However, it is just too expensive when compared to other handheld units.  You can get all these great features on a Visor for half the price.  In addition, the handspring comes with cheaper, more interesting plug in cards.The biggest advantage of the palm Vx over the handspring is that is much &quot;sexier&quot;.  Smaller and more streamlined than the Palm III  style Visor.The Palm Vx is convenient, stylish and powerful.  Too bad it is overpriced.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Excellent product but ....", "unixReviewTime": 984614400, "reviewTime": "03 15, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A12A8LU93A132U", "asin": "B000031KIM", "reviewerName": "Steve", "helpful": [18, 22], "reviewText": "The Nino with Case, 20MB CF card and battery weighed 11oz. The Palm Vx was  only 6oz with battery and slim Palm case.  The Palm was also about half as  thick and an inch shorter with the same screen size although an inch in  taken up with the writing area. I first bought the Nino because as a  longtime PC user, I thought that WinCE would be more versatile. I thought  Microsoft would win the battle of the platform, thoughts of Apple thorough  my mind. I didn't want to find that I ran out of memory before it could do  everything that I needed it to do. I found the Nino a palmtop computer  trying to be an organizer and the Palm an organizer trying to be a palmtop  computer. The Nino could do everything and was very expandable. It is a  hand-held computer, but it was just too darn big to carry around in my  pocket. I don't carry a briefcase or travel for business. I wanted an  everyday organizer to hold contacts, itineraries, notes, lists,  appointments, financial information, simple maps and do some calculations.  The Palm Vx does all this in such a small size. If I needed to use a  computer on the road, I'd buy a laptop. I don't need to edit Word  documents, do any database work, access the Internet, use multimedia or  color, read books or play elaborate games on it. I just wanted something to  hold basic information and do relatively simple calculations till I could  transfer it back to my computer. So far it does everything that my Nino  did, but with less memory. I still have 74% memory left. About 2.1 MB out  of 8 for the Palm vs. 15 MB out of 24 for the Nino (with CF card); the  programs use less memory. It my case, size mattered. I found I was never  carrying the Nino when I needed it. I'd leave it in my car. Overall, the  Palm does everything I need and want it to do. I do worry about  expandability, but so far it hasn't been an issue. If I had gone with the  Palm V I'd be in trouble. If you want something that could do those other  things, I'd just spend the money for a laptop. The Nino could do those  other things, but not very well, compared to a laptop. If they could cut  back on the size of WinCE or PocketPC devices I think I'd consider them.  Till then, I'm sticking with Palm.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Palm Vx Vs. Nino 312 (WinCE device)", "unixReviewTime": 966988800, "reviewTime": "08 23, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A1ISUNUWG0K02V", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "canaduck \"canaduck\"", "helpful": [37, 37], "reviewText": "There are many other reviews that get into the technical aspects of the  Palm IIIxe.  I just wanted to share with you why I bought it and how I use  it.There are many good reviews here.  I didn't want to spend too much  money so I didn't want to buy a Palm V, color Palm, or Pocket PC.  I feel  that PDA will only get better in the next couple of years and I don't want  to feel guilty about upgrading later.However, I was willing to spend a  little extra money because this one had 8mb of memory.  I also considered  buying the Handspring PDA but my company would pay for part of my purchase  if I Palm PDA.I use Microsoft Outlook at work and home.  I never had  much success with using a DayTimer.  It was a real pain to write things  down in the DayTimer and then type it into Outlook.  It was also a big  waste of time to write my Outlook meeting into my DayTimer.  Worst of all,  I hated lugging the DayTimer everywhere I go.  The Palm Pilot is a very  nice solution.  You don't have to duplicate your efforts and it is very  compact.I use it to synchronize my PC at work and home.  I don't do  email with it; I prefer using my PC.  However, I do use it for scheduling,  contact lists, and tasks.  I also like the memo feature so I can make notes  to myself.  It is nice to jot things down on the Palm and then synchronize  it with you desktop.I also like using the AvantGo service.  If you  haven't heard of it go check out [...]  It lets me download  stock quotes, the weather, sports scores, BBC News, Wall Street Journal,  Slate, and the New York Times.  It comes in handy when I'm are on a train,  or in a waiting room or airport.  It is a lot less cumbersome than a  newspaper in a crowd.I purchased two accessories for it:  (1) a Palm  PalmGlove Neoprene Case - this is a very nice case, great protection and it  is waterproof.  (2) a Palm HotSync Cable - it's cheaper than the HotSync  Cradle.  I use it to synchronize Outlook on my home PC.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "It didn't change my life but I find it handy.", "unixReviewTime": 968716800, "reviewTime": "09 12, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "AX8SWWB9837TA", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Chris Peters", "helpful": [131, 133], "reviewText": "This review is for PDA newbies, written by another newbie.  You might have  done some research and know a little about what you're getting into, (which  I highly recommend) but it still seems like a $300 replacement for a  Rolexdex plus desktop calendar (which is exactly what it is).  I was turned  off by some other reviews because of the sheer detail that some experienced  users go to.  People literally come to depend on this things so much that  when new features come along they go insane =)  If you are like I was, you  simply want to know if this little thing is worth the money.The basic  function of any PDA is to organize your life, period.  You will get more  use out of the basic calendar, address book, To Do List, and Expense List  than anything else.  PDAs syncronize themselves with your computer at work  and at home.  Most people don't realize how nice this is until they use it.  Now that I understand it, I do it with everything.  I download my bank  statements from the Internet into Quicken, and then into my Palm.  If I  mark a purchase on my Palm, it automatically updates in Quicken when I get  home.  At work I track everything with Excel spreadsheets, and now I can  carry my entire job at my fingertips, in my Palm.  At home, I used to keep  email addresses only on my computer, and phone numbers on a Roldex in the  other room.  Now the information is everywhere at once, and the clutter of  these extra things is gone.  Should my palm ever get lost or stolen, I've  got a hassle-free backup on my PC at work and at home.  It has freed my  life by making organization easy and intelligent.I got the Palm IIIxe  because it has everything essential, yet is cheap enough that if I found I  never used it I wouldn't feel bad about the money I wasted.  It is exactly  the same as a Palm Vx, except for a slightly bigger case and slightly  slower, but not noticeably on either account.  The Palm VII's wireless  internet feature is very an expensive extra I didn't need.  The color  screen on the IIIc is surprising functional for the cost (these little  screens can be hard to read at times). My next PDA will definitely be  color.  Oh, and don't settle for anything less than 8 MB of memory unless  you're only using the very basic functions (in which case get an M100)  Most importantly, PalmPilots offer the best experience for  &quot;virgin&quot; PDA users, hands down.  The basic features on a Palm  will never throw you for a loop.  And if you feel comfortable tinkering  with your computer, than you can visit [...] and get 1000's of  applications to make your Palm do absolutely anything you want it to.A  PocketPC offers some of the advanced features I talked about before  (importing spreadsheets and such) which come ready right out of the box,  while you have to pay extra for this on a Palm, and then have the hassle of  figuring out how it works.  Using a PocketPC is very similiar to using  Windows, but like Windows, it tends to crash.  They do have more memory  than Palms, and can be expanded if you somehow run out.  They also play MP3  music, but with the money I saved I bought a dedicated MP3 player which is  much, much better than a PocketPC could hope to be.  They also play movies,  but who on earth would want to watch movies on a PDA?  For the basic  features, they offer little over a Palm.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "PDAs for Newbies - This Palm's for You", "unixReviewTime": 969235200, "reviewTime": "09 18, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2OLQ18EOBZPE6", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Clint Herschel", "helpful": [25, 30], "reviewText": "This product has done nothing but ease my work in high school.  For instance, an essay is assigned in english.  I can type it up on the keyboard accessory and print it out when I get home.  Then I can relax when  I get home instead of worrying about work due the next day.  The To do list  also replaces my paper agenda and is a very nice feature allowing you to  check off items upon completion.  What can I say?  The Palm IIIxe saves a  ton of time plus it's fun in study hall playing games with others that have  one.  I love the infra red port.  I used to have the IIIe and this is a  much better model allowing me to put in a ton more programs.  An ingenious  device.  I can't think of going back to the old way of using paper anymore.  Palm is definately a must have.  You won't regret purchasing one.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Exceptional time saver", "unixReviewTime": 953769600, "reviewTime": "03 23, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2MCZGSS6UJHDS", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Earl N. Young", "helpful": [108, 111], "reviewText": "This item has made my life easier.  I was so used to using a calender, another electronic organizer and good ole paper to keep track of my everyday work.  Since purchasing the palm IIIxe, my life has been  simplified.  It is so easy to use and its compact size makes it easy to  take around wherever you go.  What is really impressive is the ease of the  Palm's menu.  You literally just tap the screen on an application you want  to use.  The graffiti feature takes some practice but once you've gotten  used to it, it's a breeze.  I especially enjoy using the hot sync to  download my e-mail for later viewing.  Entering information in the address  and date book is fast using the accompanying software on your home or  office PC.  You just type in the information and hot sync it to your Palm  with little effort.  I think that anyone considering to purchase a Palm PDA  should consider the IIIxe.  It has a generous 8MB or RAM, twice as much as  the IIIx as well as some added new features.  I contemplated purchasing the  IIIc because of its color feature but later changed my mind.  I could not  justify paying an additional $200 for the color feature.  The IIIxe gives  you the most bang for the buck.  I highly recommend this item for those  seriously considering purchasing a PDA and to to purchase it from  Amazon.com.  They were the only ones who have it in stock and it arrived at  my door after only two days of placing the order.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "It Was Love At First Tap", "unixReviewTime": 954028800, "reviewTime": "03 26, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A3IBOQ8R44YG9L", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Eric Antonow", "helpful": [61, 65], "reviewText": "Someone gave the the Vx as a gift so I can't really say I had a choice in the matter, but if I were buying right now I think I choose the IIIx. If you are at all interested in going beyond the basic calender, address books, note pad functions, then get the models with the extra memory. Vindigo (free Zagat restaurant and updated movie listings) and AvantGo (free newspapers and magazines in electronic formats) will use the space and take your palm experience to a whole new level. If you live in a major city, Vindigo alone makes it worth owning a Palm.So why IIIx over Palm Vx?1. No difference in funcitonality (at all)2. Significantly cheaper (w/rebate)3. More case options for III4. More attachments for III5. Coolness factor dwindles quickly6. We'll probably all be replacing these on 12 mos for ones that have big MP3 players attached, why spend more now?", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "If I had to do it again...", "unixReviewTime": 976060800, "reviewTime": "12 6, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "ADWCBZ7G4O7AV", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "E. Schlesinger", "helpful": [17, 18], "reviewText": "First off, Palm finally has the 8DRAM patch for the IIIxe, and even though  my unit was infected, I've had NO PROBLEMS whatsoever.In fact, this  machine has far exceeded my expectations.  I found it very easy to learn  the &quot;graffiti&quot; handwriting (and even easier if you download a  &quot;hack&quot; like Middlecaps.)  More importantly, the freeware and  shareware applications that I've downloaded (e.g., a more powerful  calculator, pop-up &quot;bug me&quot; notes, a spreadsheet, a document  reader, a customizable application launcher, and yes, even a few games)  have turned my IIIxe into much more than an organizer -- it's truly a  minicomputer!  Fortunately, the IIIxe has 8MB of RAM to store all this  stuff -- I wouldn't buy one with less memory.Also, Palm's customer  support is great.  When I had trouble syncing the first time, they walked  me through the process and quickly solved the problem (the unit defaults to  sync via modem instead of a direct serial connection -- kinda dumb since  most people will sync right at their computer.)A great machine for the  price, and there's still a LOT more I can do with it.  (P.S.  If you live  in Boston, San Fran, NY, Chicago or D.C., I highly recommend downloading  &quot;Vindigo&quot; to your Palm.  Type in your location or destination and  it gives you the best places to eat and be entertained -- current movie  listings, restaurant reviews from Zagat, etc.  And it updates automatically  when you sync your Palm to your PC.  A great app that makes the Palm that  much better!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Much more than an organizer!", "unixReviewTime": 964656000, "reviewTime": "07 27, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2ZB6BETR6IC27", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Gruffydd", "helpful": [85, 86], "reviewText": "This little great device is really useful, convenient, affordable, dependable, practical, you name it. I was always thinking of a Windows CE handheld computer and never paid much attention to Palm computers. Then, one day, just a month ago, I bought the Palm IIIe (because it was  affordable: $149) thinking that I was just getting a &quot;monochromatic  electronic organizer&quot; in the meantime (unlike a full-color Windows CE,  etc.), but to my surprise I had a little powerful computer! I was hooked in  less than one day and I even bought the PalmPilot book by David Pogue.  Two  weeks later, browsing the Net, I saw the newest model, the Palm IIIxe, and  comparing the features I ordered it immediately. What I like about the Palm  IIIxe, just to mention a few things, is its 8MB of memory (which in the  Palm OS world is really A LOT), the upgradable operating system (unlike the  Palm IIIe), the 2 AAA batteries that last on average 3 weeks if you use  your Palm a lot, thousands of programs to download and of course the  one-button sync with my PC.  Other than the basic functions, I use it as a  database browser, dictionary, quick reference for book titles and URLs I  keep jotting down, my repository of ideas (including small sketches),  financial calculator and to download customized channels from the Web to  read later on. In my wish list, dear Palm Engineers, there is only one  thing: This wonderful handheld computer with the screen resolution and  sharpness of the E-Book.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Buy it. It's terrific!", "unixReviewTime": 953596800, "reviewTime": "03 21, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A23Q32B7VTOXE9", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Higher Ed Technologist", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "I recently purchased my first palm and almost immediately had to replace it.  I could talk a lot about the wonderful features and conveniences the replacement palm has added to my life, but I want to talk about my great experience with Palm's customer service department.  The other Amazon reviewers can talk about how wonderful it is to own a palm pilot.The first palm I purchased had something seriously wrong with it.  I was getting numerous error messages and system failures that required that I repeatedly reset my palm, losing my data and everything.  Ugh.  I called Palm and they walked me through a thorough series of tests to try and fix it.  My call was handled quickly and efficiently, but with patience and concern on the part of the service representative.  The end result was that I had a defective pilot, and they replaced it no questions asked.  I was not happy that I had a defective product at first, but with electronics that is unavoidable once in a while.  My new palm is humming along perfectly!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent customer service!", "unixReviewTime": 984528000, "reviewTime": "03 14, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "AOK5FZT22IF3W", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Isabel M. Falcon", "helpful": [24, 29], "reviewText": "If you do not have a problem with your equipment you might have a good experience with it, other wise you will regret buying this product. When I upgraded my computer and tried to install the cradle and the hotsync program, the computer did not even booth, it just went dead.  After 25 minutes of a long distance phone call to Palm support service (no toll free number), they told me the problem was the port, so they could not solve it - the port was working. I wrote an e-mail explaining the problem, the answer two days later was I did not give enough information as I did not tell what hotsync program I installed in my computer - NONE!!!, they clearly did not even bother to read the nature of the problem.  They saw a missing field and they just assumed they could not help. Eventually, after the level of complaints Palm received on the issue was large enough, they informed via the website that some cradles are defective and they need to be replaced; however, the part cannot be ordered via web or e-mail, support had to be called.  Another 40 minute long distance call, and I was informed that in 48 hours the cradle adaptor will be in my house.  After 10 days without adaptor, I sent an e-mail to support asking for it, giving it the service order number.  The answer was to call parts, an 800 number, only 15 minutes of my time were wasted before I was informed I needed to call support, as parts had nothing to do with it.  Another 20 minutes of long distance to order again the part, as the service representative made a mistake in the previous order, so it could not be processed.  When I asked for the order number they informed me that their database is down and they are just filling orders by hand and they could not give me a confirmation number. Good luck if you still decide to buy this.Five years later, I have been blessed enough not to need any more customer support, and I cannot see my life without a palm pilot.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Customer Support is a disaster, but I cannot live without them", "unixReviewTime": 980208000, "reviewTime": "01 23, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A355B9HM87SFHE", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "J. Levine", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I purchsed my IIIxe almost a year ago, and compared against the V and VII it was the best bang for the buck at the time.  The 8 megs of memory means that you have the ability to load a ton of the ton of the third party software available for the Palm platform.  The screen was about the same quality as the V and VII, and those two models were a lot more expensive, required constant docking (in the case of the V), or had the additional expense of wireless internet (VII).However, that was a year ago.  Today, the IIIxe is still a good value, but having seen the screens on the IIIc and color Handspring unit, I would lean towards one of those two models.  There really is a night/day difference in eyestrain between a color unit and monochrome.Other than that, the IIIxe is still a great value, even though it lacks the Handspring expansion, and the Clie and Tiger's ability to add more flash RAM.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Used to be the best overall Palm.  Not sure now", "unixReviewTime": 977788800, "reviewTime": "12 26, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "AEJAGHLC675A7", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "John Williamson", "helpful": [211, 213], "reviewText": "Putting it simply, the Palm IIIxe is a five-star device. If you want just the highlights as to why, see my Short Notes below. If you want the full review, go to Detailed Notes further down.Short Notes:- Excellent quality overall, good ergonomics.- 8 MB RAM, easily sufficient to store a wide variety of applications plus data.- Has 2 MB flash memory, enough to handle upgraded (v3.5) OS.- Sharp, clear screen. Easy to read.- Graffiti handwriting recognition is forgiving and easy to master quickly.- Great battery life - should last over 30 days.- Built-in infrared port - easy data exchange between Palm devices.- Many available software applications, often freeware.- Excellent and thorough documentation.- Easy to learn how to use it - very intuitive if you hate manuals.- Syncs well with Microsoft Outlook, if you're so inclined.- Great price - a good investment.- - - - - - - - - - - -Detailed Notes:Spent a lot of time deciding which Palm OS model to go with, and finally picked the Palm IIIxe, primarily for the newer OS (v3.5), the 8 MB memory and the new lower price. Looked closely at the Palm m110 and Handspring Visor, units which offered attractive prices, but with 2 MB RAM, felt they didn't have enough memory. Also considered the Handspring Visor Deluxe, but on the two models that I had a chance to try out, the screens weren't the same quality as those of the Palm IIIxe, and nobody could explain it.You may also wish to consider the new Palm m105. See the notes at the bottom of this review for more details.To be fair, I also considered some of the newer Windows CE devices, but was put off completely by the hand recognition software. It was too slow and hard to use, so that idea was dropped quickly. Used to use a Windows CE device made by Casio, which I put aside awhile ago. Had initially been encouraged to purchase a Palm device by one of my co-workers, but I felt that the Windows CE 1.0 device with its tiny keyboard was the way to go. Then I found out that it ate batteries at a very high rate. Lived with this for awhile, but the business of hardware ROM replacement to upgrade the unit was disturbing.The Palm does everything I need it to, and in the month that I've had it, I've been pleasantly surprised by its versatility. The quality has proven to be excellent. The case of the IIIxe, though an older Palm design, fits the hand quite comfortably.The Palm IIIxe comes with 8MB of memory. In useful terms, this means that you can store approximately 12,000 addresses, 5-10 years of appointments (that's about 3000 appointments), 6000 to do items, 3000 memos, 800 e-mails and many applications. The available memory has been ample to download and store a wide range of applications along with the room to store related data. The IIIxe (along with some other models) has 2 MB flash memory, enough to handle the upgraded (v3.5) OS and the built-in applications. I also went to the Palm Web site and downloaded the latest (v.3.5.2) OS and installed it. There were absolutely no problems like I had heard about with other &quot;Palm-compatible&quot; devices.The screen is sharp, clear and easy to read, indoors or outside. Though I might have preferred a bit stronger backlight for those times where there isn't much light, have learned to adapt to it quickly.The Graffiti handwriting recognition is forgiving and easy to master quickly. One of the reasons I went to a Windows CE keyboard unit a few years ago was fear of having to learn yet another way of inputting data. I couldn't have been more wrong - it's easy and quite intuitive. What's even more important is that I'm now taking notes in meeting with the device that used to be done on paper.The battery life is outstanding. It should last thirty days or more under regular use. Since one of my complaints with the Windows CE units was short battery life, I'm impressed.The built-in infrared port allows you to transfer documentation directly from any other infrared enabled Palm device. This function works quite well. I've transferred memos to and from a Handspring Visor Deluxe and other Palm devices.There are many software applications available for the Palm PDAs, including a lot of shareware and freeware. The commercial programs that are available are top rate, and you can even find applications that will let you edit Word and Excel files. You can even connect to Oracle 8I databases with currently available software.The Palm IIIxe manuals are excellent, and do a thorough job of documentation. You may find, though, that this device is easy to learn with little reading. Its interface is very intuitive, and that's helpful if you dislike going through manuals.This PDA syncs well with Microsoft Outlook, which is extremely useful for corporate users. This is a straightforward operation in which you place the Palm IIIxe into the supplied HotSynch cradle and push the button on the base. The HotSynch operation creates a log of what was done, so you can confirm that everything was updated correctly.Picky point - comes with a mediocre lightweight plastic stylus. Order an upgrade (or the Palm 3-pack) immediately. You won't regret it.You might also want to consider the new Palm m105. Though it has a smaller screen than the Palm IIIxe, it has many of the same features but is packed in the same case as the popular m100.If you are looking for a reasonably priced PDA that can live up to its reputation, then this is a first-rate choice. The Palm IIIxe is a solid unit at a great price - an excellent investment.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Palm IIIxe - excellent product and an exceptional value.", "unixReviewTime": 983836800, "reviewTime": "03 6, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A2BE471PVBBG6Z", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Kid Bleu", "helpful": [15, 17], "reviewText": "For the price point, you cannot beat this model. It has everything you need, and a whopping 8MB of RAM to boot! It's so intuitive and easy to use. It's a true road warrior as well, coming through  with flying colors  travelling through 3 continents. Palm outdid themselves with the IIIxe!  Bravo!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The IIIxe Is A Wonderful Product", "unixReviewTime": 955324800, "reviewTime": "04 10, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2FE2YG8W9G8UW", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Linda B. \"politically incorrect in...\"", "helpful": [21, 22], "reviewText": "I purchased the IIIxe (for $... with rebate) as my first Palm. Previously I used a planner and a sharp wizard. I wasn't sure just how much I would use the Palm, but it is now a part of my being! The IIIXE screen is larger than the Palm screen on the M105, the memory is the same, and I don't find the squared shape at all uncomfortable. I highly recommend a Palm to women ...it's easy to learn graffiti, and it leaves a heck of a lot of room in your purse (no more planner, or little scraps of notes). I use it constantly, from &quot;Handy Shopper&quot; to jog my memory for groceries and even sequence them by aisle (shopping in 1/4 the time because of fewer returns to the same section) -- to Avantgo internet surfing, freeing up the home internet for my son. I read books, I play games, I track all of my work stuff, and I keep better track of all my finances (actually recording all my debit card expenditures!). Balancing my checkbook is a snap. It can be an adult &quot;gameboy&quot; and a geek organizer as well as a library and reference tool. The software available is amazing and I find new uses almost daily.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "better than the M105", "unixReviewTime": 984441600, "reviewTime": "03 13, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A1RPTVW5VEOSI", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Michael J. Edelman", "helpful": [38, 42], "reviewText": "I've been using a Palm IIIx for a year now, and yes, it's a brilliant device- but it's not for everyone. Should you buy one? Yes, if:1. You're already an organized person. If you're the type who uses a datebook or  calendar, who answers their e-mail immediately and who keeps up to date  to-do lists, you'll find the Palm a godsend. You'll find yourself whipping  out the Palm during meetings to answer your e-mail, making notes for  grocery shopping and jotting down telephone numbers and addresses.2.  You're a gamer or technofreak. You'lllove the variety of software for the  Palm. You'll be playing SimCity (yes, there's a Palm version!), chess,  Galaxian and programming in FORTH, C and various Palm-specific  interpreters.3. You're a hardware hacker. The Palm is a great interface  for all sorts of experimentation.But if you buy the Palm thinking it'll  make you organized...nope, won't happen. Save your money.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Perfect for the organized person...but...", "unixReviewTime": 958608000, "reviewTime": "05 18, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2396ASCFP9L7F", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "\"naomiii\"", "helpful": [19, 21], "reviewText": "I bought the Palm IIIxe for my dad last Christmas, and it's definitely the best gift I could have given him. Before, he was a mess- Post it notes everywhere, scribbled notes on the back of envelopes, and overflowing address books. Now everything is inside his Palm Pilot-- it can hold thousands of addresses and memo notes, and it's easy to transfer data from your PC into your Palm with the included Hot Sync Cradle.The 8 MB is more than anyone could ever need, especially if it's only for every day use. It's easy to download games, maps, books and other software into your Palm from their website, and after many downloads, my dad still has plenty of room. The hard plastic case is also very durable, though I would recommend buying a carrying case for safety. And the stylus that comes with it is pretty flimsy, so I'd also recommmend adding another stylus to your purchase. If you want internet &amp; e-mail, you can buy the Palm OS add-on and you'll be hooked up in no time.Now that Amazon.com has reduced the price, the Palm IIIxe is even more of a great deal... and the only difference between the new Palm Vx and the Palm IIIxe is that the Palm Vx is thinner and it's silver. The Palm IIIxe has everything the Vx does, at a much lower price. It's simple, reliable, has tons of space... and it's perfect for anyone who wants to get organized, fast. Two Thumbs Up!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A Great Buy-- Palm IIIxe has everything you need &amp; more", "unixReviewTime": 980121600, "reviewTime": "01 22, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A2M5GKAGV88LWD", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Paul Bobbitt", "helpful": [59, 64], "reviewText": "The first thing a person has to decide when purchasing a handheld device is whether they want to use the Palm or the Windows CE operating systems.  I've found the Palm OS easy to use, very efficient, and well supported by third party developers, as well as by Palm.  The number of utilities available for the Palm OS really adds value to the product - particularly the web-enhanced synching utilities offered by everyone from Excite to AvantGo.  Using this free service lets you synch with any web page you select, so you always have the most current information available.  For example, I bookmarked the movie review page of an online newspaper in Toronto, and always had the most current reviews, times and locations of movies in Toronto, even though the online service wasn't specifically designed to operate with the Palm system.  Basically, any web page can reside on your Palm just by selecting it using this software.  I provide this as an example of the benefits of owning the industry standard OS rather than the less supported Windows CE. Now that I've mentioned why the Palm operating system is your best choice, I'll focus on the different Palm products available. Having used both the Palm IIIc, the Palm III, and the Palm Vx, I've got to say that the IIIxe really seems to hit the ideal price/feature point.  With all the memory of the more expensive models, and all the benefits of built-in synching to Microsoft Outlook and other software, it's a great little machine.  It also has an infrared port built in, which I was able to use to keep my home computer and my laptop at work (it has an IR port, too) synched with each other.  By the way, the IR port is also great for beaming your electronic business card to another Palm owner, or playing Battleship against another owner head-to-head. You can even set it up to let you write email messages, which will be stored in the Palm, and sent automatically when you next synch with your computer.  I mention this because it highlights the ability to personalize your Palm to do what you need it to do.  You can easily use it as a standalone device, or it can be as connected as you need it to be. There are three concerns you should be aware of when choosing this model over Palm's other offerings.  First, this model has a greyscale screen, not a colour one like the IIIc.  If you really want colour, this model isn't your best choice.  (You can read my review on the IIIc for more information on that product.)  Second, it has a plastic case which is thicker and less attractive than the brushed aluminum case of the V series of Palm organizers, which may be a concern for the more stylish among us.  Third, this one isn't rechargeable - it takes AAA batteries.  This might not sound like much of a concern, but there's something to be said for being able to drop the device into its cradle for a few minutes to recharge, rather than trying to limit your use of the organizer to conserve battery power.  One of my friends had a non-rechargeable model for years and purchased a new one with the rechargeable function.  He said he ended up using the organizer nearly twice as much as his old one, so this is probably something you should consider in your purchasing decision.  Notwithstanding these limitations, this is a great product with a great operating system, lots of features and third-party support, and is easy to learn and use.  Highly recommended!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A great deal for a lot of machine!", "unixReviewTime": 977356800, "reviewTime": "12 21, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A8O2E6UBLWWFM", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Quick Smart", "helpful": [20, 20], "reviewText": "I still use my palm IIIxe.. bought it in 2001 from Amazon.  Actually this is my second one, my first one bit the dust, so I bought a refurb for $39.00 and it synced up with the 4.1 OS... it is great for addresses and calendar + todos... I also type memos with a keyboard when I'm in the field.  Also this is used daily from am to pm... at night I dl avantgo and read news from the otherside of the world before bed...I'm a broadcast engineer with high end editing systems that I built myself and I keep watching for something that I can replace this workhorse with, but no go so far!  The long battery life and using nimh AAAs is the clincher, just can't beat the little rascle.The HP jornada line with the instant on and long battery life have caught me eye, but I don't care for windows CE.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "long time user..", "unixReviewTime": 1109030400, "reviewTime": "02 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A231WM2Z2JL0U3", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Rheumor", "helpful": [17, 19], "reviewText": "Mine is older than dirt, now serving as a backup. It has proven itself to be reliable, sturdy (except for the flip-open cover) and easy to use. Of course, the software available is incredibly diverse, making this a very useful tool in business, travel and entertainment (egs. financial spreadsheets, airline schedules, 100s of games). I get months out of 2 AAA batteries, even with frequent use of the easy to read backlighting for the screen. I would say that you cannot go wrong with the PalmIII, though the price makes other brands/models worth considering too.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Still ticking.", "unixReviewTime": 976147200, "reviewTime": "12 7, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2IFGGXG3YV3Y6", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Scott Anderson \"Sharpsburg\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "Folks, if you are in the market for a daily organizer, date book planner, calculator, address book and email system, then this is the system for you.  I recently purchased this PDA after spending over a month comparing features with other similar products online and in the stores; and I've  been loving my IIIxe ever since.At a moment's notice, with a simple  touch of a button, my entire schedule from work to play is instantly at my  fingertips.  With the addition of the HotSync Cradle my desktop at work and  my laptop at home are now on speaking terms again!  I was forever changing  and deleting on both systems with tons of info falling between the cracks.  Now, with a simple push of a button all three systems are  &quot;Insync&quot;!  I've synchronized it with Netscape and Outlook, and  enjoy the luxury of answering email and then replying via the cradle when I  dock the palm.The 8mg's of memory, coupled with the long battery life of  two small AAA's gives this little palm tool the power to handle future  upgrades as well as the longevity to keep up with a hectic schedule.  I've  been using my IIIxe constantly for the past three weeks and still have over  80% of my charge left.  The problem with the &quot;8Dram&quot; was  addressed before my pilot hit the market, but I downloaded the test to check to ensure it was working.  The procedure  was painless and the total time invested from start to finish took  approximately 20 minutes.  I'm happy to report that my IIIxe and I are  doing well, and working nicely with no errors or glitches to date!The  Palm IIIxe gives you &quot;the most bang for your buck&quot;. I highly  recommend this item for those seriously considering purchasing a PDA.  It  will organize your life and make it that much easier!Go out and pick up  a Palm IIIxe today!  Shop Amazon.com!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Awesome computing in one neat package!", "unixReviewTime": 964137600, "reviewTime": "07 21, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A3O55EWFNKSPV3", "asin": "B00004RC2D", "reviewerName": "Z. Mahdavi", "helpful": [146, 148], "reviewText": "This is my first handheld, and I am so glad that I did not get a Windows CE handheld.  The Palm IIIxe has over a month of battery life (compared to several hours with Windows CE), never crashes, and is so easy to use.  It syncs really well with Outlook 2000 and Outlook 98.  No problems  whatsoever.  I especially like the wide range of programs you can get  online for free or at a small cost.  Windows CE could not do that.  Now to  the Palm IIIxe itself.  I think this is the &quot;best value for the  buck&quot; Palm there is right now.  Sure, there is the Palm IIIc and the  Palm Vx, but they cost [more than this unit].  All three have 8MB of  RAM and the updated operating system.  The IIIc has the color screen, but  why do you need a color screen in a handheld?  If it is for playing games  in color, then you are wasting your money.  The Palm Vx is exactly the same  as the IIIxe, except it has the new style, but let me ask you this.  Why do  you need style in an organizer?  You may say that these two models have  rechargeable batteries, a feature that the Palm IIIxe does not have, but I  have been using Nickel Metal Hydrate batteries (NiMH) on my Palm IIIxe and  the work very well.  Get some more information from Palm users about their  experience with NiMH batteries....  After you answer those two  questions, you will agree with me that the Palm IIIxe is the best value  Palm out now.  I chose the IIIxe over the Handspring Visor Deluxe for  several reasons.  First of all, in the Visor Deluxe, you cannot upgrade the  operating system when new updates are introduced.  Handspring, however,  says that you can add in a Springboard module to upgrade the OS.  But how  will the device operate later if you switch the Springboard with another  one?  No more OS upgrade, that's what.  The IIIxe has flash memory so you  actually upgrade its operating system.  Second, I have read several user  comments on the Visor Deluxe.  Several people are saying that the Visor  screen breaks much more easily than the Palm IIIxe's screen because of its  flimsy case design.  Palm put the normal sturdy case found in the III line  on it's IIIxe.  Second, tons of customers have complained about  Handspring's customer support.  I remember one person said, &quot;There is  none!&quot;  I am very satisfied, however, with Palm's customer service,  especially their online customer service.  Take a look for yourself at the  Service and Support section at the Palm website.  So what do I use my Palm  IIIxe for?  I use it at school to keep me organized.  I am a very busy  person, but the datebook helps keep me on track with my appointments.  Also, I store my assignments on my Palm using a program called Four.Zero.  I play games occasionaly, but that was not the primary reason for buying my  Palm organizer.  The primary reason was ORGANIZATION.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best &quot;Most for the Money&quot; Palm!", "unixReviewTime": 956275200, "reviewTime": "04 21, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "AASSDFY9K6G2T", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Abdulrahman Aljabri", "helpful": [1556, 1591], "reviewText": "No it's not especially if you take into account its intended users. If you use a Canon digital SLR and are satisfied with the kit lens (18-55) then buying this lens can be the perfect next step for you. Practically speaking, you will be able to increase your zoom reach to the point where you can A) photograph birds in moderately distant trees, B) be able to zoom in on the other side of a valley and frame something of your interest. Those are just two examples. One thing you will NOT be able to do effectively with this lens, however, is to take sport shots with it. How so? Consider some of the following weakness:*At 300mm zoom range the highest aperture is limited to 5.6 (You will have to use very slow shutter speed to snap fast action shots; remember the inverse relation between aperture and shutter speed.)*The lens size/weight combination makes it hard to hold steady when attached to a camera like the Rebel XT*Slow and often inaccurate auto focus (I just don't understand why Canon makes a USM version of this lens for $20 more, but never includes it in the triple rebate program)*Chromatic aberration is significant in high contrast lighting like in full sun (if you do not know what Chromatic aberration means search the term online or check out my review of the Canon 28mm 2.8 on Amazon, but to summarize, it would be a discoloration at the fringes of objects in your picture)Those kinds of weakness will limit your ability to use this lens in all sorts of other situations/circumstances. As a practical rule to follow, if the lighting is less than ideal this lens will give you a hard time. Meaning, it will be possible to use it, but you may get too many blurry images because of shake from slow shutter speeds. As for what are ideal lighting conditions? That would be full sun with few or no clouds and with the light bathing your subject/object from the front or the side.So is this lens that bad? Not really, as with many other lenses, when the lens is coupled with a good camera it still out performs most Point and Shoot cameras. Plus it provides results at par or slightly below the kit lens (18-55). So if you are satisfied with your kit lens, which provides you with a zoom range comparable to 3X zoom (55/18= 3), why not add another lens that will expand your zoom range by another 4X (300/75=4)? Nothing wrong with expanding your horizon!PS. TWO MORE POINTS ABOUT USING THIS LENS: First, if you're confident you can handhold this lens at slow shutter speeds (I know I can't) then the low maximum aperture shouldn't be a major problem. Second, if you're fine shooting at high ISO (more like 400 or 800) then again the low maximum aperture shouldn't be a problem. The nice thing about photography is that you can do one thing in so many ways, so don't be afraid to explore with this lens!", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Is this lens as bad as some people say it is?", "unixReviewTime": 1144454400, "reviewTime": "04 8, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3UA33R5UOA8RC", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Anand Muralidharan \"anandm78\"", "helpful": [46, 50], "reviewText": "Every person that buys an SLR camera invariably ends up with lenses that cover focal lengths of 28mm to 300mm - a 28-90mm and a 70-300mm lens.  This one fits the latter requirement.  For 170 bucks you get a long 300mm focal length.  But that's about it.The slow autofocus aside, this lens is extremely soft at all focal lengths above 150mm or so.  I recently made the biggest mistake of taking this lens to an airshow. I thought the light weight helped me with the maneuverability of the camera but then when I saw the pictures I was terribly disappointed.  There can be nothing more disappointing than figuring out that you've done your part well (composition, exposure, etc) and then find that your lens failed miserably.  The F-18 jets had soft edges and looked like they were portraits of women. I had to apply unsharp mask filter in photoshop several times to get something that I could put on the web.IMHO, Canon really failed on this one and I guess it's time they replaced this lens with something better.For those of you that are reading this review and are looking to purchase a lens in this focal length range (and price range!), I strongly suggest the Sigma. If possible, get one with the APO designation on it.  I guess it costs $50 more.  But the quality of images it produces is far better than this Canon. As a nice add-on it also offers a macro switch that enables close focusing to achieve a 1:2 magnification.I know there are brand afficionados out there that will buy nothing other than a Canon - good or bad.  If you are looking for quality in a lens of this focal length and price range, avoid this lens.  Also don't go to eBay and buy the IS version of this lens - it's got the same bad optics.  Canon recently replaced it with a 70-300mm IS.  I guess that is very good.  Of course, the legendary 100-400mm IS with a price tag of $1400 is stunning.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Canon failed in this one!", "unixReviewTime": 1129939200, "reviewTime": "10 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3BOVI9G971LA7", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Benjie Urbina", "helpful": [18, 18], "reviewText": "not as sharp and definitely not fast for action auto-focus shots.for hobby only use on weekend, this would be okay, I've shot a lot of birds on this lens and they come out just okay, JUST okay. :)The construction is just average, barrel play on manual focus might be an issue for some.If you'll try to shot stunning vivid and fast shots, you might be better off spending a little more and pick the more PRO lenses.This lens is good for sunny days and for the newbie who just want to have a decent focal lenght lens. 300mm is really not bad.I've bought a Canon 70-200mm L IS USM 2.8f lens, big difference, both in sharpness, color and speed and also, really big difference in price too.But, eventually, that's what hobbies are all about, start small and grow, if you have the money, just skip this one and buy the real deal, memories are priceless, capture it the best way you can.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Entry level telephoto lens", "unixReviewTime": 1179446400, "reviewTime": "05 18, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1Z4930RTKRTKV", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Bruno Freitas", "helpful": [13, 16], "reviewText": "Of course... That are better lens than this one...But for the price... It's quite a nice lens...Whoever is looking at this one, is because want's a TELE to take some snaps with your dSRL...Extreme Photographers may not like these ones.. Many adjectives might be said... Slow (focus and F), Bulky, etc...But I am pleased with when using it on outdoor pics... If you are thinking about using it on indoor pictures, better have a tripod and also use a high ISO, specially at 300mm.the USM on it play it's role and I don't think it is slow as I have seen in some other reviews around here..But, for the price I paid and with my Rebel XT, and again, if you are looking for a good TELE lens, I would recomend it, but be aware that is has it's limitations...", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Nice Lens...", "unixReviewTime": 1127088000, "reviewTime": "09 19, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1MM1QVMHQGTZ", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Catheriya", "helpful": [23, 26], "reviewText": "I am on a budget college student who picked an expensive hobby! I've been looking for a decent zoom lense for an offordable price for awhile and decided to give this one a shot.  I can honestly say that I am not at all disapointed.  Although you cant compare it to a $500-700 lense with IS ;look at the price.  If you are on budget like me and looking for a decent lense, this one will get the job done.  I found that at 300mm it get a little blury if you dont use the tripod, but still this lense give an exceptional images.  I love to go to a park and sneak up on birds, very happy with the quality.  I hope my experience help some of you.  My advice is do a little research because what is good for other people maynot be right for you.  Happy shooting!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great lense on a budget", "unixReviewTime": 1145318400, "reviewTime": "04 18, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AY8Q1X7G96HV5", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Chris Prinzivalli", "helpful": [42, 85], "reviewText": "Canon EF Lenses Have A Built In AF Motor..Compared To Camera Body-Based AF Motors, Lens-Based Motors Have Driving Energy With Lower Transmission Loss...The AF Operation Is Therefore Quick, Quiet, And Highly Precise...All EF Lenses Also Have EMD (Electromagnetic Diaphragm) To Control The Aperture Electronically...The Aperture Can Be Set Either With An Electronic Dial Or With The Electronic Pulse Signal Sent According To The Exposure Reading...The Aperture Control Is Therefore Precise And Umnatched...To Go With Canon's Reputation, They Introduce A Lens That Is Truely Immaculate...Its Telephoto Zoom From 75mm-300mm Is A Great Addition To A Current Setup With A 28-80mm Lens And Is Ideal For Shooting Sports, Wildlife, Or Portraits...It Can Compress An Image To Give Dramatic Effects...The Optics And Construction Are Compact And Lightweight (Compared To My Nikon FM Setup) And The 4x Zoom Is Great...A Very Steady Shot Even At Maximum Zoom...The Apature Stops Are Adaquate, Being f4-f5.6, But Could Be Wider...All In All An Awesome Lens For The Money...Another Canon Hit...The Lens Is The Same As The EF 75-300mm f/4-5.6 III, However It Uses A USM To Drive The Autofocus Rather Than A DC Motor...*Specs Taken From Canon's Catalogue...", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Canon's EF 75-300mm f/4-5.6 III USM...", "unixReviewTime": 975196800, "reviewTime": "11 26, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A21HD9LIRFID71", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Cody Hinchliff", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "For the price this is an ok zoom lens. I'm left wanting an image-stabilized lens though because i have found it difficult to get consistently good results with this lens without the constant use of a tripod. I have years of slr photography experience and a very steady hand, I can get clear shots at 1/20th of a second with a 50mm focal length. With this lens, its difficult even at 1/200th of a second, which is about an average exposure time for this lens in daylight at 100-200 ISO. The lens is also slow to autofocus and somewhat inaccurate, causing some photos to come out slightly blurry. If you really have to have a zoom lens now and can't afford an IS lens, this one's not a bad choice. But if you can wait, save your money and get an IS lens with faster focusing and better optics. You'll be glad you did.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "not bad but clearly entry-level", "unixReviewTime": 1168905600, "reviewTime": "01 16, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AXLQP6J93X2NQ", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Daniel Wild", "helpful": [47, 49], "reviewText": "I have used this lens nearly everyday for over a year now, mainly taking sports and wildlife photos, and since it has been my first lens, I have come to love it. The lens is great in good sun light, BUT once the sun goes down, you are screwed. I shoot with a Digital Rebel, and this lens with indoor sports at ISO 1600 ain't pretty. The lens has taken a lot of heat on the web for slow focusing and being soft at 300mm - hard to argue this. The lens is amazingly sharp when you're at around 100mm, but the longer you reach, the less sharp it becomes, and that can be bad news if you're shooting something in the distance and plan to crop heavily (outfielders, birds etc). But if you're like me and can't afford a ridiculous $5,000 lens, this one will make you happy, for the cost and abilities, it is well worth it's price. Would I sell it after buying a better lens? Probably not -- it is light and easy to carry. Play to this lens' strengths and you'll get some nice results. I have the hood and don't see any noticeable differences. I took a few shots once with the IS version and didn't notice much of a difference either. Not everyone can be Mr. f/2.8", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great Value ...", "unixReviewTime": 1145664000, "reviewTime": "04 22, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A9Q66U9SCV3Q9", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "ElaineJ", "helpful": [12, 13], "reviewText": "There are no professionals or would-be professional  photographers in our house.  Instead we are ametuers who love to get fun shots of our friends and family.  We're not particularly interested in birds, flowers, bugs, race cars, etc.  We want to catch our kids doing what they love best; football, basketball, swimming, band, golf...My only advantage is that I am very experienced with Adobe Photoshop, which lets me creatively salvage some less-than-perfect shots.This year our son is a high-school senior.  Instead of buying an expensive portrait package, we voted to spend the money on a Canon Digital Rebel XT kit (with lens).  We choose one extra zoom lense (the 75-300mm f4-5.6 III USM Telephoto) for up-close action sports shots.  We didn't chose the IS lens because it was out of our price range.We are having great fun with this camera and lens.  We have already taken a variety of football game pictures using the 'basic' sports setting on the camera (burst mode at full zoom).  They are great - crisp and clear.  These have been taken in full sun.  We realize that we'll have to get a little more creative when we are taking pictures in lower light situations.  But I think we can do it.I would recommend this lens for anyone who just wants to capture some fun shots.  They might not be professional quality, but they are just what we wanted.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great fun for an Amteur!", "unixReviewTime": 1155600000, "reviewTime": "08 15, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A8OU2FHE8QWFS", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Gwyneth Calvetti", "helpful": [60, 66], "reviewText": "I bought this lens about six months after replacing my 20 year old SLR with the Canon Rebel G. I didn't think photography could get any better. It did.The first day I used this lens, I was shooting photos of a biplane plummeting at an airshow. Having been used to my older equipment, I thought, &quot;No way can I hold 300mm still enough, but what the heck, film is cheap.&quot; I was wrong. That photo was crystal clear, and instead of a tiny blur in the midst of sky, I have a very clear image of the plane filling the frame.The lens has been responsible for getting me up close in many places since, most recently capturing Al Gore and his entourage on the pilot house of the riverboat that travelled the Mississippi the day after the convention. If you are looking for a versatile lens that gives great results under many conditions, this is it. It really is hard to take a bad photo when using it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Makes every photo look like a prizewinner", "unixReviewTime": 971395200, "reviewTime": "10 13, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2UQK3DAZ8NO2T", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Hiram Grant \"just call me Sam\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "This is a good standard telephoto zoom with solid, but average performance.  This particular lens features Canon's micro Ultra Sonic Motor; therefore, it does not have the same focusing performance of the standard USM designs.  Optically, it is the same lens as the EF 75-300 III, and performs roughly the same.  Usually, this lens retails for more than the non-USM design, but I'd pay little more.  An oddity on Amazon has often had the price of this lens lower, and that's a good deal.As previously stated, the lens is a solid performer.  Good lens speed, but not as fast of focusing as the EF 100-300.  Additionally, the front of the lens rotates, which is not as nice when using filters such as polarizers.  The plastic barrels are OK, but zooming is a bit less smooth than desired.Canon also doesn't include much with the lens.  A lens shade is very useful for outdoors photography, and Canon is very pricey on an accessory that most include.  Canon's one-year warranty is also poor compared to most others.For a good alternative, look at the Tamron / Promaster 70-300 LD lens which has closer focusing, includes the shade, and both offer longer warranties.  However, neither are as quiet as the Canon lenses.For an upgrade, look at the Canon EF 100-300 USM, which offers a smoother, faster USM, and no filter rotation.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Good, average telephoto zoom.", "unixReviewTime": 1151020800, "reviewTime": "06 23, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A35K21L7HIH76Q", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Izzybee", "helpful": [38, 41], "reviewText": "I have owned this lens for about 3 months now and have nothing but good things to say! Many reviewers reguard this as a LOW END LENS, poorly constructed and won't reep sharp images. As with any lens you do need to receive a good copy as I did. I use this lens mounted to my Rebel XT and have taken over 500 photos at 300mm with excellent results! I do not use One Shot Auto Focus, for best results you should set the Camera focus to AI SERVO which enables the Lens into FULL TIME FOCUS, this will lock all focus points to get crisp/sharp images, if you try that you will see how well this lens will preform! I do own the standard kit lens + The EF-S 17-85mm Is Lens + The EF-S 10-22mm IS lens. For the money you can't beat this lens, I paid $189.99 for it and have no complaints! Canon has a New Lens due to be released in Sept,05...a 70-300mm version with IS and has a retail price of $649.99! This is something I would be interested in testing, but I am very pleased with the results I receive with the lens I have!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "EXCELLENT LENS/VALUE FOR THE $$$$$$$$$$$$$", "unixReviewTime": 1125100800, "reviewTime": "08 27, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A17FYFDILT57M0", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Janet", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "My husband bought this to expand a Canon T1i (dslr), that just had the kit lens. No, it doesn't have IS,(400 bucks for a Canon 250mm) no, it's not a (L) lens, (1,500 bucks). But for the price and the expandability it offers it was a good purchase. I kills me to see people pay 150 bucks for a lens, then bash it because it isn't a 1,500 dollar lens. We would all love to have one of those. This is a good lens for what it is, a manual focus on distant objects lens. One way to get around the \"hunting\" on auto focus, is to put the camera on spot metering. And if you want even quicker shooting, just flick the camera to auto, let it do the work. This allows the camera to pinpoint the focus on a single spot. It actually stays on the camera 80% of the time, with the lower 75mm rating on zoom, it's just a little closer than the 55mm kit lenses, but with the quick ability to go to 300mm. One of the reasons I chose the Canon was the ability to use older EF lenses thus saving money and expanding as I go. I still feel it was a great purchase and don't regret it at all.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "A great purchase for the novice", "unixReviewTime": 1296518400, "reviewTime": "02 1, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A23VGBG17K5NJ3", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "John Nolley II", "helpful": [11, 12], "reviewText": "I tried this lens out when looking for a low-cost telephoto lens for my Digital Rebel XT, side-by-side with the USM version, the IS version, and several L-series lenses in similar focal lengths (the latter being but a pipe dream and way out of my budget at the time).In short, if you want a lens with a long reach and have next to nothing to spend, this might be the lens for you.  I'd suggest spending the extra money on the USM version for the slightly-faster focusing--it's really just a pittance more, unlike the IS lens (although not appreciably sharper than this lens).Photos are remarkably soft, particularly toward the 300mm end.  If you want this lens for nature and sports photography, be prepared for a lot of work in Photoshop to get something sharp enough to use (and forget about professional-quality prints).The focus is very slow, and the lens itself rather slow throughout its range--and particularly at 300mm, where you're going to be locked into f5.6.  This means longer exposure times and/or requires better lighting, which limits its usefulness for capturing action at any distance.Personally, I'd save up a bit more or else rent a better lens if you immediately need something in this focal range.  However, if you're okay with the softness--perhaps you're only doing portraiture and want to put your camera halfway across the room?--and can deal with the other limitations, the lens is very affordable.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Pay for cheap, get cheap...", "unixReviewTime": 1136937600, "reviewTime": "01 11, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A20ZDV9ZEESN5K", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Justarasta", "helpful": [30, 33], "reviewText": "I bought this lens when I was going to take the kids to the zoo one day.  My camera shop was kind enough to remind me I could return it if I were not happy with it. I kept it and have used it several other times with great results on my Digital Rebel. Other than agreeing that there seems to some soft focus if you hit the 300 stop point,  the performance of this lens has been a very pleasant surprise - especially when you factor in the price.  This is a real lens with a metal lens mount and a fast USM motor that makes focusing instantaneous.  I have also found it to be no problem hand holding this lens despite the higher effective focal length since it is mounted on a digital.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great value", "unixReviewTime": 1076716800, "reviewTime": "02 14, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A5KMMY627T3W", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Kate Stokes", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "Let me say that I haven't used this lens in a few years. I am now using much more expensive L series lenses. I still have the photos that I took with this lens on my hard drive, however, and technically they are great. For the price of this lens they are remarkably great. Very low distortion, no CA and razor-sharp images. I am saying this after looking at pictures just this week, after a few years of honing my photo skills and my photoshop eye. I am very sensitive (some have said too sensitive) to defects that can only bee seen at 100%-200% and I do not see any in the pictures taken with this lens. I have seen many when looking at the pictures from the 85mm f1.8 lens, for instance.The lens was mated with a Rebel XT when I took those pictures, incidentally, which frankly it is meant to be. This is not a lens to be mated with a semi-pro or pro body. I'm not sure what the results would be there. They would probably be pretty good with a 40D but with a 5D I don't know. Again with the Rebel they were great, and I think given the cost of this lens it is meant for a camera like the Rebel. For the price this really can't be beat if you are shooting with a Rebel, Rebel XT or Rebel XTi. 5 stars because it does exactly what it is supposed to do and more. It is supposed to be a competent lens for a low price and it ends up being a great lens at a low price.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Undeserved negativity.", "unixReviewTime": 1223251200, "reviewTime": "10 6, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "ARXU3FESTWMJJ", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Mary Jo Sminkey \"15 years of Amazon Reviews!\"", "helpful": [19, 22], "reviewText": "I've used a lot of different telephotos lenses, from this one, to the better Canon70-300mm model, the70-300mm DO, and the wonderful70-200mm f/2.8 L lens. This one is not terribly great. It tends to softness, particularly at the upper range, can show flare and CA, and the build quality is poor. In fact, after a couple years of use, the autofocus on mine stopped working, the only lens I've ever owned to have such a problem. I've seen similar reports on other photography forums so mine is certainly not an isolated problem. To repair it would cost almost as much as the lens itself, so it basically was trash at that point and I certainly was not getting another one and upgraded instead to the 70-300mm which is a far better lens all around. I'd suggest that anyone that needs a lens in the $200 or less range look at the latestSigma offering, which is a much better performer than this lens and gives you some decent macro capability as well, or the newCanon EF-S 55-250mm lens. While I've not tested this new lens myself, it's gotten very nice comments for the most part and IS in this price range is a real bonus.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Not recommended, there are better lenses even in this price range.", "unixReviewTime": 1200355200, "reviewTime": "01 15, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A1F2QYMDONSF7I", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Memo \"Digital enthusiast\"", "helpful": [32, 33], "reviewText": "Here is a zoom lens that produces good photos, but not as good as  I get with my Canon 28-105 mm lens. I am overall satisfied with it and  USM is a definite plus. However, do not expect astonishingly clear pictures from this lens! And you really have to use a tripod to get the most out of it. I do not carry this lens out most of the time in the camera bag because it is rather heavy. Buy it only if you need the zoom. I have experienced no mechanical or optical problems with this lens and therefore quite satisfied.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Useful zoom lens", "unixReviewTime": 1039132800, "reviewTime": "12 6, 2002"}
{"reviewerID": "A3JU243J8NU729", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "MGMcd", "helpful": [15, 15], "reviewText": "Most experienced photogs wouldn't waste their time with this lens, but for a newbie or someone on a limited budget, it is fine. It is best in good lighting conditions, but you may have to fiddle with the aperture and ISO in low light. Then it will be grainy, anyway. And it won't really bring in the subject from very far away, but no 300mm will. So don't expect stunning nature photos or NASCAR photos from the cheap seats. The images I posted are from 50' away from the subject at most (Cedar Waxwings) and they have some grain even at ISO 100, but most people think they are decent enough. Anyway, it is a good way to get into a longer telephoto on the cheap. Enjoy, but understand its limitations.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Depends on your expertise and budget.", "unixReviewTime": 1170633600, "reviewTime": "02 5, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2GGKJ318HO2GE", "asin": "B00004THCZ", "reviewerName": "Michael Horn \"mikie\"", "helpful": [17, 18], "reviewText": "On a tight budget when I purchased my dRebel almost two years ago - this lens looked very attractive. Since owning it for two years - it seems to go further and further to the back of my equipment bag - and not taken in my backpack at all unless the climate is too harsh for my more expensive lenses.In fairness to the product - it is very GOOD for what it cost and how it is designed. It makes no pretension to be anything other than an AF f5.6 >75-300mm&lt; telephoto. The construction has remained solid - the zoom (fairly stiff or tight when new)sometimes makes funny noises from grit lodged in the 'nether regions' of the lens barrel (I am a defense contractor who travels to some pretty rotten climates). Dust and dirt do not seem to be a serious problem with regular maintenance of brush and blower around the rotating parts of the lens barrel.Things I enjoyed with this purchase:1. Light weight, solid construction2. Acceptable optical quality in sunny outdoor use3. Accepts the same filters (58mm) as my dRebel kit lens4. Affordable for those on a tight budget5. Compatible with the dRebel autofocus and auto exposure system6. Expendable (if something bad happens) in harsh climates7. Draws absolutely no attention from customs inspectors, (or anyone looking to steal your stuff) when clearing security at ports of entry or return. Clears airport security without manual inspection.Unsatisfactory/annoying qualities that quickly became evident:1. f4-5.6 limited my use indoors or low light. Plan to spend much time in Photoshop to save your pictures2. Length of lens made it unusable with the dRebel pop-up flash (lens shadow). Immediate purchase of a 420EX Speedlight ($177+ see my review) cured this problem3. Front focus rotating lens element limited my filter choices to UV (haze) filter only4. Annoyingly SLOW auto focus5. Tripod is almost manditory with lower shutter speeds (see f4- 5.6 limits). The 1.6x magnification factor when seated to the dRebel brings the focal length out to over 450mm making off tripod use risky* Use of a BGE-1 battery grip ($100+ see my review) with this lens - lowers camera center of gravity-extra counter-weight makes lens use less stressful.Good price - fair optics - limited overall performance. Limits for the serious photographer make one want to look elsewhere. SIGMA has superior product in this price category, as well as the house brand at Ritz/Wolf Camera chains-while the discriminating photographer who has the resources should look seriously at Canon's \"L\" series (as I've done) or 'IS' series as suggested by other experienced reviewers.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Good Price - Fair Optics - Limited Performance", "unixReviewTime": 1118880000, "reviewTime": "06 16, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A213UFMBOI3IUF", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "Bruce Boyes", "helpful": [34, 37], "reviewText": "I was looking for a compact, rugged (I carry it hiking, skiing, boating, etc) camera which is easy to use. I wanted standard memory expansion (CF cards), macro mode, and if possible, a waterproof housing (for kayaking). This is the only camera with all these capabilities. Even with the waterproof housing it is small. The lens retracts and has its own metal cover so you don't need to fuss with a lens cap. The metal housing seems very rugged. Turn-on to ready-to-shoot is about 3 seconds. I'd give it  5 stars if the automatic modes were better and if there were true manual focus and exposure modes. For example, in auto mode you can't use the flash redeye reduction, you must be in manual mode for that. The auto color balance is often fooled by dense clouds. You need to use the manual exposure adjustment in backlight or bright light conditions such as with snow in the background. The dynamic range seems not quite as good as the Kodak DC260. The macro mode works well, although it takes some practice since the camera doesn't clearly indicate when it can't focus. The white-LED backlit LCD is very bright and crisp, even in sunlight, and relatively easy on the battery. The panorama modes are wonderful. Buy at least two batteries and you'll never run out in the field. High-res photos take 1-1.5 MBytes each so you want a CF card sized accordingly. It's so small and light, even with a spare battery, you really can take it anywhere. In auto mode anyone can use it as a point and shoot camera. The manual modes give you a lot of control over exposure and white balance (but there is no manual focus or manual exposure). 1600x1200 means really good, cropped 5x7 prints and acceptable 8x10s. There are better cameras but none anywhere near as light and compact. It's a little jewel.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Smallest digital camera which is any good - &amp; waterproof!", "unixReviewTime": 975024000, "reviewTime": "11 24, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A3TRPVAGT3NWBS", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "Cliff Bauer \"Cliff\"", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "My first impression of Elph S100 was that there couldn't POSSIBLY be room in the thing for anything other than a battery and a memory card. Somehow, the engineers at Canon did it, and the results are nothing less than astounding.Three things make this camera a particularly good buy:First, and most importantly, its size makes it SO CONVENIENT. I have had absolutely no qualms dropping the S100 in a bag or pocket and walking out to a birthday party, a sports event, or whatever--space simply isn't an issue with this camera. As a result, I have taken some of the best shots of friends and family with the Canon.Second, the feature set is basic, but very easy to use. The power button is a simple button--no toggle thumb switches with multiple settings that can sometimes be confusing. Switching between viewing and capturing modes is simple and straightforward, and even the more advanced features (such as changing the flash mode) are easy to figure out even without reading the manual.Finally, the &quot;built in&quot; lense cap is a big plus. I didn't realize how nice this &quot;feature&quot; is until I briefly used a friend's digital camera and had to remove and replace the lense cap WITH EVERY SHOT. The built in cap seems insignificant with light use, but when taking many shots over the course of a few hours, the S100 really shines.Photographers should be warned, however, that the S100 is not a professional-level camera by any means. The 2.1 megapixel resolution, while not meager, is not enough to yield even high-quality 5x7's. Serious cropping of a photo is usually out of the question because of the limited resolution.So, if you will be using your camera as a &quot;fun&quot; camera--for casual pictures--look no further. This is the one. If you're serious about picture quality, compare the S100 carefully to its larger siblings--the S20, and the G1.Overall, a fantastic little camera.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Perfect Camera for &quot;Fun Photos&quot;", "unixReviewTime": 992649600, "reviewTime": "06 16, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A321UWX6A3K66B", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "Craig", "helpful": [46, 47], "reviewText": "I've been incredibly happy with this camera. This camera is great if you're used to a high-end SLR. It's overkill for simple snapshots, unless you've got way too much money to blow. Exposure compensation in 1/3 stop increments (I leave it set on +1/3 stop to brighten up the default exposure, which goes a bit dark for my taste). Slow-syncro flash, macro/infinity mode, etc. The zoom range is a little narrow (35-70mm in 35mm film equivalent), but given that the camera is the same size as my wallet, I can't think of any real complaint. The SS body is wonderful, feels high-quality.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent for travel", "unixReviewTime": 970617600, "reviewTime": "10 4, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "AD3PVF4GNKD4I", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "Daniel Appleman", "helpful": [50, 50], "reviewText": "There are several things I especially like about this camera: It's fast - you can quickly browse through shots in memory, and the time between shots is very short. Much faster than the Olympus D320L I used previously. While the LCD screen is small, you can zoom in on shots in memory (effectively 9x) so it's possible to get a good idea of the quality of any shot. The panoramic mode is incredibly cool - the camera fixes the exposure settings and lets you view the previous shot before you take the next one over. The camera comes with software that aligns and stiches the shots together to form a panorama. I did one set of 12 pictures to form a 180 degree circle shot - amazing. Overall, it's a great little camera.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Too cute for words", "unixReviewTime": 970790400, "reviewTime": "10 6, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2GBHZL855WFH3", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "Edward Torpy", "helpful": [25, 28], "reviewText": "The S100 is simply amazing.  If the camera were any smaller, it would be difficult to use.  And the price is very reasonable, especially when you consider that it comes with a rechargable lithium ion battery and a  charger.  In the past, you would have to spend around $100 for just the  battery and charger.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Amazing", "unixReviewTime": 961200000, "reviewTime": "06 17, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A5JLAU2ARJ0BO", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "Gadgester \"No Time, No Money\"", "helpful": [17, 18], "reviewText": "I was a little skeptical about what people had said about this camera, because it's just so small.  After getting one for Christmas from Amazon, I'm now a believer:  The Digital Elph is truly the world's smallest digital camera that shoots great pictures.2.1 mega-pixels (2.02 effective, according to manual) is nothing to write home about -- and the Canon continues to take under-saturated pictures -- but the picture quality is top-rate, besting many 3-mp cameras I have tested.  The quality shows when you print the images, even at 5&quot;x7&quot;.  I use an Epson 875DC and the images are many times better than those taken with my other digicams, even under the same shooting conditions.This camera is also easy to use; you can start shooting away after you unpack and charge the included LiIon battery.  The LCD viewfinder is small but very clear.  One good thing: your nose won't touch the LCD when you use the optical viewfinder (unless you have a very small face).  Battery life is decent: I get about 50 shots with all flash and LCD on.  Obviously you get more if you turn off LCD, and even more if you don't need flash all the time.This camera turns heads.  Every time I take it out I can hear people around me talking about it.  Some will ask me if they can hold it.  I'm always proud to tell them that it takes great pictures, too.  I love this little camera.So, what are you waiting for?", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "No longer a skeptic", "unixReviewTime": 979257600, "reviewTime": "01 12, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "ATWGAAUYYLACR", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "H. Prinsloo", "helpful": [23, 23], "reviewText": "I ordered this camera and received it not even a week ago. I have seen photo's on the internet but believe me..there is nothing like the real thing! This one truly makes you fall in love with it the first time you see it.When you buy this cam...also get an extra battery, flash card and protective case. Many tips has already been said in these reviews so I'm going to add to it. One review said that the person had tremendous trouble installing the software on a Win98 platform. My first installation was succesfull. I used Win98 second edition to help with the installation. Something you should keep in mind. The SP100 only supports USB transferring of data to your PC. So you need a USB port attatched to your motherboard. The latest boards has a USB port. But the older ones ( which is not that long ago ! ) does not have a port and you have to buy a USB card to plug into your motherboard. I had to do that.The rest of the installation and connection to the camera is mind blowing easy and quickly ! Downloading photo's to your pc is like saying 1,2,3.Then something another reviewer said. Sometimes the photo's tend to be a bit dark. Quite true. But you CAN force the flash to stay on. You also can set the flash on Slow-Syncro mode which adjusts itself to the slow shutter speeds. You can also set the exposure compensation and the white balance.There are a few more things the cam can do. I will name some of them. Shooting continuously, ( 2 images per second until you release the button), a timer ( takes a photo after 10 seconds ), shooting close-ups, stitch photo's together, replay images on your TV (realy cool), and taking black and white photo's.The software is okay...nothing to rave about ! What would I like to see improoved.....definetely the zoom capabilities !!But overall...a beauty !", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Dynamite comes in small packages...", "unixReviewTime": 983318400, "reviewTime": "02 28, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A8EDTKSPOMRWK", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "hyperbolium", "helpful": [29, 29], "reviewText": "I replaced my Canon S10 with an S100 within only a few months of the initial purchase.  Even with its relatively compact size and rugged construction, I found myself leaving the S10 behind more often than not. It was light, it was small, but it wasn't light enough, and it wasn't small enough.The S100 solves that. For the most part, it is an S10 in a smaller, lighter package. Slipped inside your coat pocket, or hanging off your belt in a case, it's barely noticeable.  But take it out to shoot, and the quality and flexibility will astound.As with the S10, the S100 is easy to learn.  Unlike the S10, there is no secondary display on top to provide information on shooting mode, pictures remaining, etc.  The color LCD on the camera's rear shows overlay menus and stats to provide this. In other digital cameras, this might be a serious negative: using up valuable battery power. But given how miserly the S100 is with electricity, the arrangement doesn't seriously impact the number of pictures you can take.And you can take a lot of pictures.  By adding a larger compact flash card, such as the Viking 128MB, you can capture a short vacation's worth of pictures without downloading.  A choice of three different resolution/compression settings helps conserve memory.  The rechargeable battery (included) will nearly see you through the entire 128MB, depending on how much you use the LCD display for shooting and editing.  With a second battery, you're virtually assured that you won't run out of power during a day out. The recharger is multi-voltage, so with a plug convertor, you can recharge your battery in many foreign countries.The electric frugality also means that you're free to edit your shots on the go, snapping a half dozen or more in any circumstance, and deleting all but the best.  This is great for shooting pictures of the camera shy.  They're assured that you're only keeping the &quot;good&quot; shots.  It also works well with children, as you can provide them the instant gratification of seeing the picture only seconds after it's been shot.  (This isn't particular to the S100, obviously, but its battery life helps!)A few negatives of the S100: (1) the flash slot is CF1, rather than CF2 (as in the S10 and S20), which means no microdrives. (2) The flash is weak, as might be expected in a camera of this size, and located so close to the lens as to just about guarantee red eye. I've gotten some spectacular examples of the latter. With post-processing you can mitigate the red-eye, but it often takes an artist to really eradicate it. (3) The controls are small, and may be difficult for some fingers. (4) The shutter lag is substantial, making it very difficult to capture action (although the continuous shooting mode helps).  (5) The 2x zoom often leaves me wanting. The 2-megapixel resolution helps, as you can often blow up the middle of a shot and still have sufficient pixels for a smaller print.The programmed exposure modes are adequate, and the manual settings can help, but at its heart, the S100 is a happy snapper. Great for snapshots, but frustrating for sophisticated photographers who find themselves in unusual lighting.  The panaromic mode, combined with the photo stitching software works well.One can discuss the merits and demerits of the 2- and 3-megapixel cameras on the market, but if portability is your primary concern, the S10 is hard to beat.  No matter how good your camera, it won't take good pictures while sitting in a drawer.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The &quot;take everywhere&quot; 2.1 megapixel choice", "unixReviewTime": 990662400, "reviewTime": "05 24, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A1EARN5PUVIF1S", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "Jerry P. Danzig", "helpful": [63, 64], "reviewText": "I'm a writer and new to digital photography.  I've owned a few 35mm cameras over the years, including one SLR and two point &amp; shoots.  I had been waiting for the prices of digital cameras to come down before  taking the plunge.  This year, with a cruise to Nova Scotia coming in  August, I decided the time was right and just purchased a Canon S100  Digital Elph.  I must say, I think this is the coolest camera I've ever  owned!  First, it really is tiny; the size of a pack of cigarettes, maybe  a scooch deeper.  The included battery charger is larger!  Second, it is  incredibly easy to use.  I just went on a quick photo shoot in NYC's  Central Park today, and what a bunch of beautiful photos I took, if I do  say so myself (and I do!)  The camera is as easy to use as a point and  shoot, and with instant review on the LCD screen, you can retake any  flubbed shots on the spot.  The two-times optical zoom operates smoothly  and quietly, and lo and behold, a two-piece shutter-like cap automatically  slides closed over the lens when you turn the camera off. I also had no  problems installing or running the camera software on my PC.  I'm still  learning about file sizes (and how large is too large to email), and I did  erase one photo I wanted to keep as I was getting used to the menu system.  But otherwise I am thrilled to have taken the plunge into digital  photography.  And there are two more advantages to digital photography  which I hadn't anticipated, beyond the lack of film and developing.  One is  the lack of censorship of your photos -- time for some, uh, fashion  photography of your wife or girlfriend, if that's something you both would  enjoy!  Another is the ability to upload images from your PC to a memory  card in the camera.  This is a great source of personal entertainment for  travelers, if you catch my drift, and you can zoom in on the LCD images!  I  would also recommend Canon's soft case for the camera, which has a slot to  attach to your belt along with a second nicely finished compartment to hold  an extra battery or memory card.  As other reviews have noted, you will  definitely want one or more additional memory cards.  I've found I can get  from nine to twelve compressed 1600 X 1200 photos on one 8MB card, or 28  images uploaded from my PC.  At any rate, if you have been interested in  digital photography but the price and confusion have held you back,  consider the Canon S100 Digital Elph.  It really is the perfect travel  camera, plus it offers the convenience of digital photography.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The World's Smallest and Cutest Digital Camera", "unixReviewTime": 964137600, "reviewTime": "07 21, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A3FTI86WAVJOLG", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "John A. Radi \"jradi\"", "helpful": [99, 102], "reviewText": "It's the same body as the popular ELP2 APS camera (take a look at a standard credit card from your wallet and you'll have an idea of the front profile!).  A 2X optical zoom (you can pretty much ignore any time a  manufacturer refers to &quot;digital zoom&quot;)Size naturally means  pricey - [and] may seem a little bit much for a point and shoot camera  but but it has one feature which sets apart from all others: it's small  enough that you'll have it with you!  Being a gadget guru - I've owned  about a dozen cameras and this is the first one that I always carry around.The next two features which are equally important in any digital camera  you're considering:2.  Compact Flash Support - Smart Media memory is too  expensive, in short supply, and doesn't seem to be growing in capacity as  quickly as Compact Flash.  So CF seems to be the way of the future in  &quot;digital film.&quot;3.  USB support.  Sure, there are floppy  adapters and serial cables which are cheaper - but they're SLOW!  Imagine  copying a 2MB picture through your floppy drive - it would take several  MINUTES vice a few seconds via USB!  If it's cumbersome, you're not going  to use it.  Not only does this have built in USB support (great for sharing  files w/ other PC's), but Compact Flash USB readers are getting cheaper and  that'll save you battery life when downloading to your own pc.The rest  of these features are all on the same level.... 4.  Rechargeable battery.  While it's more convenient to have a camera that uses generic batteries (AA  or AAA) that usually means bulky and not as efficient.  This camera has a  proprietary rechargeable Li-ion battery that comes with a little device so  you can plug it right in the wall and recharge it.  Very compact, recharges  in about 2 hrs, if you're just taking shots using the viewfinder and  letting the camera show you the shot for &lt;2 seconds (best method) then  you can average over 250 shots per recharge!  If you're using the camera's  LCD to take shots then you'll drain the battery in about 85 shots (not  recommended)5. Built-in lens cover.6.  All metal housing - very  durable.  Except for the Compact Flash door - which is plastic (why! ) it's  a very durable casing - unfortunately I'm a little worried about that CF  door!Comments:**No LCD to view memory status, etc...  However, the  LCD window is used to display information.  Can hardly blame Canon, this  thing is so small there's no place to put an LCD panel!**Very few manual  controls, and image quality settings.  There are 3 settings and on the 8MB  included card you can store 4 / 12 / 46 photos depending on which  resolution you choose.  I'd recommend buying a 64MB card asap, and just  take all photos at the highest resolution - you can always decide later to  scale down photos on your pc...**Playback mode.  I had my first camera  for nearly a year before I realized what a benefit it was.  On the fly  share your photo album in anyone's house in their living room, vice  computer desk - makes it easy for sharing with a lot of people.  The Canon  has a unique feature which allows you to flip Vertical pictures (when you  take shots with the camera held vertically).**Very Quick Camera.  The  Elph has an large image buffer so you can take rapid series of photos  quickly.  Depending on image setting, anywhere from 3/9/45 shots before it  dumps to CF Memory (which takes 3 seconds).  Other cameras don't have this  feature and you might have to wait 3 seconds per shot!**Image Quality.  On a scale of 1-10 I'd give it a 9.  Highest resolution prints decent  8x10's which is about all I'd ask from a digital camera.  It's fixed at ISO  100, so it's not exactly a lowlight camera, but it does fine with flash.That's about it - I hope you enjoy yours!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Who says size doesn't matter!", "unixReviewTime": 966643200, "reviewTime": "08 19, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A3NU7HS5TUSU74", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "John White \"weasel rancher\"", "helpful": [31, 32], "reviewText": "My last digital camera was an Apple QuickTake 200, which shot 640x480 pixel images. The Apple was actually better in two repects: it turned-on quickly and it showed you what you just shot right after you shot it. The  ELPH will do the latter but you must hold down the shutter button to view  it. But this DOES work even if you turn off the LCD viewing -- great  battery saver.The larger the CompactFlash card that you use, the slower  it takes for the ELPH to turn on. It takes about 2-3 seconds of pressing  the on button plus 2 more seconds till you can shoot a picture. I  understand this is to prevent automatic turn-ons but sometimes I want to  immediately take a picture.That aside, this is a great camera. I bought  a 32mb CompactFlash to go with it and shoot in Fine mode (1600x1200  compressed) and get about 50-60 images. It takes about 4 seconds to  transfer each picture via USB to my Apple G3 PowerBook.The QTVR  (panorama) generating software is great. It eliminates much of the hard  work for the user. But you really need to keep it on a stable surface to do  this well.I also have an ELPH Jr. APS camera. (With a black body before  Canon changed it.) It got it because it was so portable (i.e. usable). This  is every bit as enjoyable. I rarely ever use the flash. The zoom works  perfectly fine, though I'm not much of a zoom user. My friend has an S10  and his pictures are a little better, but the S100 wins out for its  tremendous portability.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Small, delightful and well-designed", "unixReviewTime": 962668800, "reviewTime": "07 4, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "AH8NYD41MAT61", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "Michael Kozlowski", "helpful": [31, 31], "reviewText": "The good:  Small size; durable-seeming metal case; easy to use; visually distinctive; good picture quality; fast USB connection; mostly intuitive operation; really cool PhotoStitch software that knits pictures together to give wide panoramas.The bad:  Short battery life (about 50 shots with flash and LCD on -- thankfully, it comes with a recharger); no way to take 640x480 pictures in automatic mode (or, if this is possible, manuals that don't tell you how to do it).The ugly:  Adobe PhotoDeluxe software -- utterly useless, as it only saves in a proprietary format; and even if it did save in usable formats, it just doesn't do very much, and it does it poorly.The conclusion:  High wow factor, great toy for the technogeek, but get a second battery and some better software.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Nifty point and click camera", "unixReviewTime": 974505600, "reviewTime": "11 18, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A32UT0N3BGO8KN", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "Mohammed Fares \"mofares\"", "helpful": [25, 27], "reviewText": "I purchased this camera for daily use and I use it everywhere. It's simply awesome and the quality od pic's are incredible. Another great thing about  it is that it's so compact and easy to use. You can carry it with you  anywhere and just take a shot. The menu functions are easy to read and the  lcd monitor is sharp for it's size. The only thing I would recommend is  that you upgrade the 8mb compact memory card since you can only take 11  pictures at 1200 x 1600 resolution and 46 at the lowest resolution. The  software is super easy to use and once you connect the USB port to the  camera, the sofware automatically opens up with the pictures right in front  of you. It's a great buy and no one will be disappointed.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "My favorite toy!", "unixReviewTime": 969321600, "reviewTime": "09 19, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A2DN7RUNX06BZ1", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "nychen", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "i researched and researched between getting the canon s20 or the canon s100, and of course i got the latter! and i'm glad i did!this is my third digital camera, the first two were sony mavicas which used disks and were a big bundle to carry around compared to s100's put-in-your-pocket ease.also, the pictures are wonderful! shooting only takes a second, and the display is very clear and crisp. very sturdy feel and weight to this small camera. easy to use and understand mostly, a bit hard to press the buttons sometimes. the camera does tend to heat up but nothing too hot to handle. the battery is small and not heavy.negatives are the unclear digital zoom, but it's expected. you will find yourself carrying this little baby around everywhere! and never miss that oh!suprising! shot again. overall, wonderful! glad i spend the money, very worth it!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "slick little digicam", "unixReviewTime": 970012800, "reviewTime": "09 27, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A3VW47C62Q0RML", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "Prime Reviewer", "helpful": [50, 51], "reviewText": "This camera is perfect for me.  The size is incredible.  I'd had an APS  ELPH and was fairly happy with the pictures it took so I bought this when I  first saw it.  I love it.  I can carry it in my pocket anywhere.  I bought  a 128MB CompactFlash Card that holds over 200 pictures at the intermediate  setting (I compared this setting to the high setting and honestly have to  enlarge the photo to 600% before I can barely tell the difference).  With  this card, I don't need another.  They have a 192MB Card out now.  If your  going to travel, you'll want an extra battery also.  No other camera on the  market is even close to this for the best all round package.  I've printed  out pictures at different sizes with Yahoo/Shutterfly and at 8x10 you can't  tell the difference from a 35mm handheld.  It is still not as sharp as my  35mm SLR - but that likely has a lot to do with the physical size of the  lense.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent package.  Everything is in this tiny camera.", "unixReviewTime": 968112000, "reviewTime": "09 5, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A231WM2Z2JL0U3", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "Rheumor", "helpful": [33, 33], "reviewText": "I have had this little gem for four months now. It has given me zero problems, and the more I use it, the better I become at taking advantage of its strengths. I had a regular Canon Elph (APS), as well as a JVC digital camera. I was looking for a blend of the two and so I bought this camera. I'll share some observations that may differ a bit from what other reviewers have noted. 1) It is perhaps too small. I find it a bit difficult to manage the very tiny buttons and impossible to read the icons without my reading glasses on. Its size makes holding it steady for long a bit of a challenge (not enough camera body to grip with more than your finger tips). 2) The delay from the time you fully depress the shutter to the time the picture is taken is too long and may yield some fuzzy shots. This is due to the unusually slow autofocus system. 3) The lack of an intermediate resolution setting, as other reviewers have suggested, is a problem, but that problem is meaningless with a larger CompactFlash memory card (I got a 64 meg card for $... and it holds 105 pics at 1600 x 1200 res). 4) The camera gets really hot when you are busy snapping away. It is hot enough to be annoying. Canon says it's normal. I have found it gets less warm with the LCD off.These minor carps aside, it's a great little piece of technology, and even better with the recently lowered price.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Four Months, Zero Problems; Price break too!", "unixReviewTime": 973900800, "reviewTime": "11 11, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A3GB92BPDHSAOA", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "Ryan Parasram \"parasram\"", "helpful": [29, 30], "reviewText": "I have used this camera for about 3 weeks so far, taking over 500 pictures. I have 2 batteries and a 128 mb card. Here are some useful facts:- On a battery charge, the camera takes approximately 70 pictures, where the camera is opened and closed between pictures. A 64mb card stores approximately 100 pictures at default resolution (ie between 500k and 1.5mb per picture). The viewfinder does not accurately represent the pucture being taken. The LCD should be used. However, in dark settings you must use the viewfinder. The digital zoom is crap. Turn it off. It fits in your pocket. The closest competitor is the SONY DSC-P1 (3.3mp). But that camera is a little larger and you defeat the whole purpose of having a truly portable camera. I take my camera everywhere. Tamrac makes a tiny pouch that is best for the camera. The front even has a zipper for an extra battery and your wallet stuff. The panorama setting is unbelieveable ! You take around 12 pictures in a circle, stitch them together and voila; you have a perfect memory of where you were standing ! The pictures are a little dark sometimes. You have the option to have the flash automatic or off. I would have liked to force the flash on as well.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Most practical camera", "unixReviewTime": 980380800, "reviewTime": "01 25, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "AHY2KG32696ES", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "SL", "helpful": [19, 21], "reviewText": "If compact size is your highest priority in a 2-megapixel camera, the Canon PowerShot S100 Digital Elph is a standout choice and aptly named for its diminutive design. The S100's image quality rates in the middle of its class, but it can still be a reasonable choice for students, families, or small businesses looking for an ultra-portable camera that weighs less than half a pound with media and battery pack.The jury rated the S100's prints in the middle of the pack, but its overall image quality results fell at the low end of the midlle for 2-megapixel cameras. Color balance measured better than average, with a noticeable blue cast in images shot under outdoor lighting conditions. Though the S100 only offers center-weighted metering, we overcame a tough indoor-exposure situation by using both exposure and focus locks. Other 2-megapixel cameras offer a more powerful zoom lens and more image-control settings.The flash worked fine for shots taken at the maximum-rated distance under indoor lighting conditions, but it overexposed images taken inside at the minimum-rated macro distance. We were impressed with the sharpness of macro images captured outdoors with no flash. Standard shots taken without flash under outdoor lighting conditions showed slight underexposure but accurate color. The S100's panorama mode worked effectively, as did its burst mode, in which we captured one shot per second at the high-resolution and high-compression settings and three shots every 4 seconds at the high-resolution and low-compression settings.The S100 feels balanced in its shiny stainless steel case and flattens to a smooth, flat box when the lens retracts; an integrated cover protects the lens when retracted. External control buttons are minimal, because you adjust most of the setting through menus, but, unfortunately, the relatively small LCD and small menu font present an operational challenge.The S100's bright LCD displays a graphical menu system which attempts simplicity, but misses the mark and leads you back to the User Guide to clarify navigation and features at every turn. It can be frustrating to use the small LCD to take advantage of the camera's effective panorama mode, but better that than using the viewfinder in this mode. The S100 can be ready to capture your first shot in 3 seconds and subsequent shots every 7 seconds.Compared to others in its class, the S100 is well equipped and designed, with both a USB interface and convenient access to batteries and media when the camera is mounted on a tripod. The included software bundles together a valuable mix of applications, particularly the effective image-stitching software for panorama-mode shots.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "not bad--for better quality pics get 3.1Mpix or higher", "unixReviewTime": 985564800, "reviewTime": "03 26, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A2H2VSTCFJMMTP", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "T. Asgari \"Clown Puncher\"", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "I bought this little guy a few weeks back, and I have to saythat I never had so much fun with a new toy as this.  You willdefinitly appreciate the small size.  You can take it anywhere withyou, unlike other bulky cameras, and capture every moment of yourlife.This is my first digital camera I've owned, so I wantedemphasis some points to all my felow novice photographers that otherreviewers may have already pointed out: 1) there's no intermediateresolution quality setting; it's either the normal 640 x 480, thebetter 1600 x 1200, or the best super fine 1600 x1200. Which, ofcourse, means the better quality pictures you want to take, the morestorage space you need. I recommend a 32M, or better, Compact Flashcard...  2)Buy an extra battery.  The batter will last around 70 or sopictures using a flash, with the LCD turned off, but if you plan ongoing on vacation, you will definitly need one.  3)Image quality isinconsistent.  This could be my fault, but under the camera automaticsetting, some pictures come out way too dark, red, or blurry.  This isspecially true when taking pictures indoors.  But daylight outdoorpictures are truely beautiful.  4) You need to hold the camera verysteady when taking pictures due to its small size.  Otherwise pictureswill turn out blurry.Overall, I love this new toy.  I woulddefinitly recommend it to first time digital camera owners.  It willtake you some time to learn to operate it but after that it will be apiece of cake. Enjoy!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Happyt together", "unixReviewTime": 975110400, "reviewTime": "11 25, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "A268WAQS5WNMGJ", "asin": "B00004TS16", "reviewerName": "Thomas B. Gross", "helpful": [12, 14], "reviewText": "This wonderfully small digital camera produces fantastically good pictures printed on any decent photo-quality printer (with photo quality paper).  It will not replace your high-end 35mm SLR but it's a great toy to keep near you at all times for snapshots.The only negative comments I have about it is that I personally find the small controls hard to use (my 48-year-old eyes have trouble seeing something this small).  I have had some annoying problems with the software on my Windows 98 machine; basically I have to uninstall the driver everytime I disconnect the camera or the computer will look for it, not find it, and crash the next time I restart the machine.  I would not recommend this camera for the naive computer user.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "This is the one to get", "unixReviewTime": 976060800, "reviewTime": "12 6, 2000"}
{"reviewerID": "AFD9FSQSKN910", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Afterburn", "helpful": [10, 15], "reviewText": "Allow me to first state that I want people to learn from my experiences below (initial review) - a bad unit can bite you, and depending on the seller, getting your money back may be harder than with others.I have upped the star rating from 3 to 5 based on receiving a functional, refurbished unit that I received directly from Canon.  If the lens was not up to the highest possible degree, I would have kept the review at 4 stars, based on my bad experience after purchasing my first lens.  It exceeded all of my expectations once I received a fully functional lens.  I will try to explain how in the following review.I have now used this refurbished lens to take (at time of this review) around 700 pics in the last couple of weeks.  I could not wait to update the review.My initial impressions are extremely positive.  Most reviewers have already gone over how the lens feels sturdy, the focus ring is smooth with a nice throw for easy manual focusing, and how the lens is tack sharp.  I could not agree more.  After getting a working lens (the autofocus now operates as I would expect) I can report that all of these statements are true.  The thing that struck me the most, though, was the accuracy and speed of the autofocus system.  At macro range, it will track an object and keep it in sharp focus even though my hands are twitchy and the subject may be moving around.  There are a few moments where the focus will stop tracking, but a quick retap of the autofocus button will resume the search.  As was stated in one of the comments, the autofocus does not like going from macro range to standard range, but this is a good thing.  It tries to anticipate where the focus will be, instead of hunting all over the range.The sharpness of this lens is the next massive asset in this lens's bag of tricks.  The level of detail you get from pictures taken in a standard magnification range is absurd.  Every line of every feather is in sharp contrast on a bird (assuming you can get close enough to fill a good portion of the frame at 100mm).  Get close and the smallest details pop out.  The tiny hairs on a grasshopper are present in the photo, and compound eyes become a nest of interwoven latticework.Because this is a 100mm lens, in theory, one only needs to be 1/160sec on a 1.6x crop lens to avoid visible blur from camera shake (not sure if this translates to macro though...) which means you can hand hold this lens in moderate light (I have a very good amount of keepers at 1/160th).  My recommendation, though, is to have a flash unit.  I have a 430 ex ii which has been wonderful.  I do not miss the lack of image stabilization on this lens due to the fact that I mostly use an external flash.  I have tried to use the lens without a flash and unless you have fantastic natural light you're better off with a flash.  Also, some claim IS assists in composing and framing.  Composing a hand held shot is not difficult to me, even at maximum magnification and without IS.  As I stated before, my hands are shaky, too.If your photos require a close up perspective, this is a fantastic option.  The results from a working version of this lens speak for themselves.  In the first 5 minutes I was hugely impressed, and with a small amount of experience my love for this lens has only grown.  I have also used the 100 f/2.8L which is very similar to this lens, but with the addition of IS and a red stripe (ok - a few other things, too).  In practice, I have not seen an appreciable difference between the two lenses.  The non-L is good enough for me.Hope all this helps!---------------------------------------------Original Review:The autofocus on this lens did not operate.  It would hunt for focus for a few seconds and then stop trying.  This was the case in all light levels.  I also tried this with multiple focus distance limits (the switch on the side) as well as multiple camera bodies.This is so sad because the lens has so much potential.1.  The pictures taken really are tack sharp.2.  The auto focus ring is smooth and has enough throw to finely adjust as needed.3.  The lens really opens up a world of fun in your photography.  I found myself shooting everything I could to \"test\" the broken mechanism.  It was hard to send back, even though I knew it was broken.As far as the return process, I purchased this from Amazon, sold by Adorama (a company I've followed for quite a while and have trusted).  They claimed that because I did not purchase directly through them (but rather on Amazon's site) I could not receive an exchange for a working unit.  I could only return for a refund.  They were going to charge me retroactive shipping from them (\"free\" on the original order), a restocking fee, and I had to foot the bill to ship back to them.  WHAT?!?  After a [mostly] calm conversation with their phone support I was told I would receive a full refund and a shipping label to ship it back.  I'm out no money for a defective product shipped to me, so I'm now a happy camper.Since the refunded money has already been reallocated, I now have to save up for this lens again...It's that good that I wouldn't go without it for too long after briefly having it in my possession.  Thus it hurts to give it a 3-star...I just can't give higher without receiving a working unit.  :(", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "First was DOA. Purchased a refurb from manufacturer & updated review.", "unixReviewTime": 1349654400, "reviewTime": "10 8, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A3U7HS3TEX6B90", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer \"fyngyrz\"", "helpful": [20, 25], "reviewText": "Let's start with the obvious from all the reviews. The bokeh is fine. The lens is pretty fast. f2.8 to f22 is useful as a creative range. The optics are sharp and the all-time focusing is a boon. So what's not to like?Well, here's the thing. The Canod EOS40D, which I use, has the ability to use the viewfinder in \"live preview\" mode, and when doing so, will allow you to zoom in on your focus point (or anywhere else, but that's irrelevant to my point here) such that you can see extremely fine detail. At which point you can manually focus the lens so that it is exactly right. Marvelous, right?It would be. But the lens has some mechanical backlash problems. Let me explain backlash; if you're not familiar with it, it takes a bit of describing.Backlash is a problem that occurs in gear trains or arrangements that causes the finest adjustments to repeatedly over or under adjust, depending on which way you are going, because the gears don't (can't, really) fit perfectly together.In a standard gear train, the gear teeth have a little bit of freedom to move before they make contact with the teeth of the next gear in the gear train, and this causes movement of the gear to be without resistance.The gear turns relatively easily, because it isn't actually engaged, and then when the teeth actually make contact a fraction of a turn later, they \"slam\" together and more of an adjustment is made than one would expect.Which in turn requires adjusting the other way, but now the gear has to move back across the non-engaged space and slams into the tooth behind in just the same manner. This can result in a VERY frustrating experience.So now we get to the issue with the lens. The focus adjustment has a noticeable backlash problem which becomes evident at the very highest magnification of the EOS 40D's live preview.I recently took a picture of a small creature (about 50 thousandths of an inch across) on the wall of my salt water aquarium. I used live preview, max magnification, and manual focus.Let me tell you, this was an experience of great disagreement between the lens and me. I spent literally ten minutes trying to get the lens to the best possible focus.I would touch the lens ring, and the focus would get sharper, and then frustratingly, slide right past that setting to slightly blurry again. I'd then adjust the other way, and the same thing would happen again the other way.The camera was on a tripod, it was orthogonal to the plane the object I was trying to focus on was attached to, the object was agreeably motionless - all the recipe ingredients for an easy to focus situation. Except we are talking about a VERY small object, and so very fine focus control is required.Is this going to bother you in your application? Probably not, unless you shoot very tiny things, as I do from time to time. Even then, we're talking about trying to squeeze the very last wisps of focus accuracy the lens is capable of out of it.But after spending almost $500 on a lens, would you not want to get all you can out of the optics? I know I do. If what you're shooting is moving, you could easily lose the best possible shot because the focus is just about uncontrollable in that last percentile or so.It is possible that I got a bad lens; perhaps others would be so good to check this out before they post their reviews. But I have to review the lens I have, because that's the experience I've had.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "A great lens, but not quite perfect", "unixReviewTime": 1192406400, "reviewTime": "10 15, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3GQCYPH9OLHAN", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Andre Malerba", "helpful": [37, 38], "reviewText": "I use this lens all the time, and never get bored of finding things to photograph with it. It is really a good lens and you will often see people comment on the fact that it may be one of those special lens' that could be L glass but gets away with being reasonably priced.Build: This is a solid well built lens. Its mostly metal construction ensures that it will last a long time. The focus ring is of course rubber and is easy to use. However this lens is heavy, so much so that if you are handholding it and using manual focus your camera holding hand will get tired. I have attempted to do this with a 430EX flash mounted on top and it is literally hand cramping after a while. You will most likely want to purchase a tripod collar with this lens, as a lot of focus will be lost due to camera shake.AF: This lens isn't the fastest lens on earth, and in conjunction with an XTi I find that it is sometimes annoyingly slow. It also tends to hunt a little in all but the best light conditions. Another reason to get a lens collar and use a tripod. However I rarely use autofocus with macro work, and prefer the control of manual. Given the shallow depths of field, manual is much more useful. Also the only time you really need a fast AF with macro is outside shooting bugs and such, and you will probably have the light of the sun which would of course be plenty to ensure the AF functions as you want it to. I wouldnt pass this lens up on account of the slightly slow AF.Picture Quality: I find that this lens produces incredibly sharp pictures (again, do not expect really sharp pictures hand held, I feel like a lot of people complain about this, but dont realize its their fault, not the lens'). The saturation and general color is amazing, and I rarely find that I have to up the saturation or vibrance. Personally I have found this lens to be tack sharp at f/4, and it stays there most of the time, as f/2.8 is a very very shallow depth of field.In Comparison: Although I do not own the 60mm macro, I have had a chance to use one, and although the 60mm is more versatile (i.e portraits), I would not give up the reach. Even at 100mm I find myself wishing I had the 180mm L lens. But 100mm is certainly better than 60mm. This is definitely a macro lens, if you also want to do portraits get the 100mm and the 50 1.8. Personally this is a better choice than loosing the 40mm.Overall: amazing lens, you will be satisfied if you are looking to do macro and some portraits if you have enough room (outside). The only reason I give it four and not five stars is the slow AF in darker lighting situations. But you can work around this. Great lens from a great company!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great Macro Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1198281600, "reviewTime": "12 22, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2WKTACW026L63", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "An Empty-Nester", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "This is one of my Targeted Purchases for Additional Lenses with my Digital SLR Camera (Canon XSi and XTi).  Being FINALLY FREE (As an Empty-Nesting Retiree) .. I've gone back to College ... and a selection of the courses are in Photography.  The skills/techniques I am studying necessitated the purchase of a Macro Lens -- and since this one Arrived .. WOW ... I've gotten a LOT of use out of this one lens -- everything from close-ups of the Spring Blooms to Insects/Butterflies and nature in all its wonderous glory.  I LOVE it ... but realize this -- if you are photographing blooms -- you MOST likely will be using MANUAL Focus -- for the lens itself will zoom in and out (sometimes repeatedly) -- trying to focus where IT wants to .. so if you want the BEST quality (based on your tastes), set it to MF and go for it!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "GREAT Macro!", "unixReviewTime": 1209945600, "reviewTime": "05 5, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A1YF1FE5SOOBVD", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "billsirinek", "helpful": [19, 19], "reviewText": "I have a bag full of lenses and this is easily my favorite (I'm sure I would think differently if I could afford the Canon EF 180mm f/3.5 macro.) I've really gained an appreciation for macro photography since buying this lens. There's a whole world of creative possibilties located right inside YOUR house!For the technical... This is a true macro lens. Many lenses like to claim they are \"macro\", or have a \"macro mode\" but if the lens does not do 1:1 magnification, its not true macro. This is the case with Canon's 50mm \"macro\", which requires you to purchase an additional adapter for nearly $300. You'd have saved money by just buying this lens in the first place.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "a fun lens", "unixReviewTime": 1169424000, "reviewTime": "01 22, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1EVLOB1B8JFDI", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Carlton Ward \"redjelly39\"", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "I really love this lens. I mostly use manual focus, a tripod and RS-80N shutter release when setting up my shots. My mistake was buying an off-brand macro ring light that eats batteries so I am saving to get the Canon MT-24EX which costs more than the lens.  This lens does not need much light to get great shots but the effects of macro lighting makes for those colorful vibrant macro pics you see in National Geographic. I have several L lenses and the 100mm Macro is every bit as sharp as those lenses.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Canon 100mm sharp", "unixReviewTime": 1170028800, "reviewTime": "01 29, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A4WEZJOIZIV4U", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Chuck Bittner \"Disabled comedian & gamer!\"", "helpful": [21, 41], "reviewText": "I love this lens it and the f2.8 is awesome for a macro lens.Pros:  sharp, contrast, close-up shooting, fast focus, lightweight, build quality, f/2.8Cons:  hood is espensive, size is a little bigPros:  Amazing clearity,I can consider this a \"L\" series lens even though its not listed as such..well balance,very smooth.over all a excellent everyday shooters lens.Cons:  nothing at all...one of the best 1:1 lens on the market hands down.if your a newbie here's some infoA lens is \"fast\" when it has a low f-stop... ok so when you have a smaller number the apature is bigger which allows more light through, so this means you can up the shutter speed. and still have enough light reach the sensor.ok so lets say you have an out door shot if you have say an f/4 lens the shutter speed could be 1/250 of a second and you would get a good exposer. Now this lens can only go f/4but if you in the same outdoor setting, had an f/2.8 lens you could jump to 1/500 of a second and get the same exposer. and freeze the action mmore effectivly, this i believe is why it's a \"fast\" lens.ok have fun and get it done", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "9.6 out of 10, great lens all around", "unixReviewTime": 1134432000, "reviewTime": "12 13, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3N0FGU0U1KHUD", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "G. Clark \"hogwallow\"", "helpful": [256, 269], "reviewText": "The 100 f/2.8 macro is very sharp, even for general shooting, so it works great for portraits, too. When I'm not using a zoom, this is my walkaround lens for people, relatively tight scenes and even indoor sports. Think of it as a great lens that also shoots macro than the other way around. Hard to beat that versatility at the price.But it comes into its own at close distances. If you've never had a macro lens, you'll run around shooting everything in sight because everything looks new from a macro perspective.Canon has several macro lenses. I prefer the 100 mm over shorter lenses because I don't have to get quite as close to that bee or wasp. The 180 mm gives you even more distance from your subject, more background blur and amazing sharpness. But it's much more expensive and in most cases you'll need a tripod, and I shoot a lot of improptu macros as I'm hiking.For extreme closeups with larger-than-life images, there's the MP-E 65. It goes up to 5X, compared to the 100mm's 1X, but you lose autofocus with this lens. In fact, you set your magnification and then move the camera until the object is in focus! As you get beyond about 2X, the viewfinder gets fairly dark. If you're doing still life macro work, it's amazing. I'll probably get one someday for shooting my mineral colletion.One thing to keep in mind with any macro is that because of the close distances, you're often in lower light conditions. Althought it's fairly pricey, I'm using the MT-24 EX, which lets you adjust the direction of the twin flashes. The MR-14EX ring light is a couple hundred dollars cheaper but will produce a slightly flatter image. And you can always use one of the standard flashes, though the closeness of your subject may cause some odd shadows.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Sharp, versatile and a bargain", "unixReviewTime": 1138492800, "reviewTime": "01 29, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3OASPX3DOPG99", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Glen A. Sansoucie \"gsansoucie\"", "helpful": [77, 80], "reviewText": "I bought this lens a little over a year ago for macro shooting.  I quickly found out, however, that to shoot Macro-only with this lens is a crime.  It is a very versitile lens.  Its fast f/2.8 aperture makes for good shooting in low light.  I pretty much use this outdoors as the 100mm with the 1.6x crop factor of my Rebel XT eliminates most indoor oppurtunities.I frequently use this lens for family portraits, the resultant photo is so crisp and clear and the bokeh really helps add snap to the primary subject.As others have stated, this is a heavy lens.  It doesn't have Image Stabilization (IS) so a tripod or monopod is a great accessory to get the best images.  I use a beefy monopod for my best shots, although I have a lot of handheld gems...If you are tight for cash, this isn't the \"one lens\" that does it all.  If you are looking for a versitile lens that can do outstanding macros and portraits, THIS is that lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Everyone agrees this should be an 'L'", "unixReviewTime": 1161475200, "reviewTime": "10 22, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "ABH69EP8DDPKA", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Hidenori Inagaki \"Hidenori Inagaki\"", "helpful": [17, 17], "reviewText": "This lens is intermediately priced, good Macro Lens.This focal length is particularly useful since its 100mm focal length (160mm on APS-C lineup) can achieve reasonable result for both Portrait photography and Macro Photography.With this lens, you can get pretty close to your subject without much of compromise.  Focus is reasonably fast, that is somewhat sufficient to chase small animal if used with camera such as 20D, 30D, 1D MKII.But, if you shoot small creature professionally, you might feel bit awkward at some point as it is very easy to hit limitation of current AF technology, if so, it might be better off switch to MF quickly to chase the subject.  And this lens perform reasonably well on the MF mode as well.But, you really have to use it with full sensor DSLR such as 5D or 1DS series to get your money worth from this lens.  You will love bokeh this lens will create when you shoot with this lens.While it will not match optical performance of EF 180mm f/3.5 L USM Macro Lens  (As it cost nearly 2.5 times) as macro lens, it will certainly focus faster, easy to carry, and It is very sharp and perform well for other function such as for portrait .Of course, I will not say it will match performance of true portrait lens from Canon that sports much wider aperture, but this lens came pretty close, and you can get away with the most of professional assignment with this.I just recently completed photo shoot for some professional magazine article that catered for designer and photographer, and this lens perform superbly along with more expensive L variety lens.  So, this lens is pretty reliable.Some professional pointed vignetting issue at f/2.8, though I did not notice much.  My shooting style does not required to take notice as I tend to stopped down to shoot subject when I am using this lens, but it is possible to be a issue for some people who tend to shoot at wide open.As a Macro Lens, this lens will really shine when stopped down to beyond f/16 or so, as it is true macro lens designed to shine at those f-stop range.This focal length are popular for macro photography, and there are other budget solution from third party manufacture, and few OEM brands that sports Auto Focus mode exist, but they will not match optical performance of EF100 f/2.8 USM Macro Lens as this lens is very nice at almost all f-stop whereas third party solution is tend to be good at particular f-stop .It does not weigh much, so it will not going to be your burden.  When I am on the field, I tend to carry 3 large zoom + one or two fixed focus lens, and this lens will be one of such lens to bring if I have to choose among prime lens.It also makes decent product photography lens, though if you have extra budget, I would go for the TS-E 90mm f/2.8 Tilt-Shift Lens as it is a lens designed for that particular purpose.  But, when you are on the field, and asked to do quick work on the spot, EF 100mm f/2.8 USM Macro will handle job just fine.Pro:Excellent optical performance at all f-stop. And it is suited for number of purpose.  Consider it as utility telephoto prime lens.Good Starter Lens for Macro Photography, and easiest to master compared to other Macro solution offered at the Canon EF system.Con:Hood or Pouch are not included, and you will need them!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Call it Utility Macro Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1175817600, "reviewTime": "04 6, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2RDBISUB2B9EZ", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "J. Bradford", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "This is a really handy lens to have in your bag.  I added this lens to my collection several months ago, and I haven't regretted it one bit.  I took a trip to Montana in August and used this lens to photograph a ton of wildflowers.  I was also using a 70-300mm telephoto lens and a 24-70mm wide angle lens heavily, but most of my favorite shots on that trip were taken with this lens.Autofocusing is very quiet since it's USM powered, but it's often tricky to get the right focus if you're doing an extreme closeup.  This is a general facet of macro lenses, so you'll probably find yourself using manual focus 90% of the time or more.  The manual focus on this lens is quite excellent though, and responds well to fine adjustments.  It's also quite easy for me to handhold it, as long as I have a decent amount of light or pop up the flash.With all that being said, this is a nice lens to grab after you have a decent telephoto lens, if you like photographing small things.  Otherwise, you might look into getting some other lenses first, i.e. wide angle, fisheye, etc. (unless you already own all of them :-)).", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A casual photographer's take", "unixReviewTime": 1162512000, "reviewTime": "11 3, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1156AFCBJ9F13", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Jessica", "helpful": [15, 15], "reviewText": "This was my first lens for my merger into the digital world. I use it with the 20D and it is a very sharp lens. Wide open the depth of field is great for portraits, but stop down a bit for macro shots and it greatly improves your shot.Image colors are a little on the warm side, nothing that photoshop can't handle. The lens is quite heavy, but very well built. Very quiet autofocusing. A good thing for Canon to consider would be putting image stabilization on this baby!  This lens is a keeper. I find myself using this on the majority of my nature outings. Bokka is FANTASTIC!!!!  A tripod is a must in low light conditions however.For the price and quality, go with this lens! Highly recommended!  check out some of my images at [...]", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Lens, Great Price! A Gem!", "unixReviewTime": 1164931200, "reviewTime": "12 1, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1XINNG3IMIBSR", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Jim", "helpful": [25, 30], "reviewText": "This lens is simply an AMAZING - fast, quiet, great picture quality and color, and MACRO.  If you don't already have a Macro (and not the pseudo-macros like the 28-135), you should strongly consider getting one, you'll be quite suprised by the difference it makes.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Amazing Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1077408000, "reviewTime": "02 22, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "AKT8TGIT6VVZ5", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "John Kwok", "helpful": [35, 44], "reviewText": "I have heard and read favorable reports of this extremely versatile, quiet autofocusing macro lens which can focus down to a 1:1 life-size reproduction ratio without any additional extension tubes. Although it may not be as stellar an optic as its Carl Zeiss and Leica equivalents, this lens does perform well at least from f4 and below. Even wide open at f2.8 this lens is a fine performer. While the best lenses in Canon's autofocus lens lineup remain the critically acclaimed - and expensive - L series, this macro lens remains one of Canon's best in its moderately priced range. I have been impressed with its performance from seeing photographs taken with this lens. Those interested in nature photography who own Canon autofocus cameras and lenses should strongly consider adding this lens to their kit if they haven't already.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "One of the best 100mm Macro Lenses available", "unixReviewTime": 1120176000, "reviewTime": "07 1, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2W9GX82SLKROQ", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Lenny", "helpful": [59, 66], "reviewText": "This is a review for beginners by some one who's still learning. If you're an experienced photographer, just consider the 5 stars and read other reviews.The quality of this lens is great. As many reviewers have pointed out, the image quality is sharp and the colors excellent. This should come as no surprise, macro lenses are usually some of the best lenses made. And of course it focuses all the way to infinity as well, so that you can use it as a \"general purpose\" lens.Depending on what you use the camera for, this is probably not a carry around lens. The 100mm focal length (equivalent to 160mm on APS-C sensor cameras such as 20D) makes it difficult to use it - I find myself having to move back and reposition myself very often, and may result in a missed opportunity.A few other accessories will come in really useful to get consistently good macro photos.- A stable tripod- A remote release cable- External flash- Books about photography, if you don't have them alreadyI have the first, just bought the second, and thinking about the third. Amphoto has some very good books on photography. I find \"Understanding Exposure\" by Bryan Peterson to be very well written and easy to read.A remote cord will prevent camera shake when pressing the shutter. I've tried using timer mode to compensate for the lack of a remote cable release. The problem with that is that when the timer goes off, the breeze that died down may have picked up again, and my carefully framed flower is now halfway out of the photo, and is blurry as well. I never realized how windy it is in my backyard until I tried taking macro photos of plants.Why a tripod? To achieve maximum depth of field (more areas in sharp focus), you need a small aperture. A small aperture means a slower shutter speed to get a correct exposure. Boosting the ISO too far will result in noise. That means that unless there is a blinding amount of light (this is where the flash comes in) you're unlikely to be able to hold the camera still enough to prevent blurring. The only thing worse about a macro photo with only a small area in sharp focus is a blurred macro photo. And remember, stable is the key word. A cheap shaky tripod may not be much better than no tripod.Speaking of light, try not to take outdoor macro photos (or any outdoor photos) under strong direct sunlight if you can avoid it. You'll find the color washed out compared to an overcast day, or early morning / evening. Or you can use a light diffuser, but that's yet another accessory to carry around.As an alternative to a remote release, you can use a laptop, USB cable and software. It is rather more difficult to carry around, and you can get a 3rd party remote release for around 1/3 the price of the Canon original.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great lens, needs more accessories for fantastic macros", "unixReviewTime": 1151712000, "reviewTime": "07 1, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "ARXU3FESTWMJJ", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Mary Jo Sminkey \"15 years of Amazon Reviews!\"", "helpful": [17, 17], "reviewText": "If you've only worked with zoom lenses, you may be pleasantly surprised by the sharpness of a prime lens like this one. I only dabble in macro photography but also wanted a good outdoor portrait lens and this fits the bill perfectly! It's fast, has lovely bokeh and is sharp all the way to the corners. The 100mm length gives you a bit more distance when shooting insects which is a good plus, but be aware that this is a fairly heavy lens and not easily handheld (and does not have IS as many of the zooms these day do.) Use of a tripod is certainly recommended when possible as for good macro shots you do often need to stop down and may have to sacrifice a bit on shutter speed as a result. This may not be marked as an L lens, but it certainly is that level of quality. My only real gripe is that Canon does not include the accessories (hood, case) with the lens, as is typical for lenses in this price range. Otherwise, an excellent lens for anyone wanting to try their hand at true 1:1 macro photography.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "One of Canon's best lenses", "unixReviewTime": 1201305600, "reviewTime": "01 26, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A2VV0TJNJT9D3O", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Matt \"mattfl1\"", "helpful": [60, 66], "reviewText": "This lens without a doubt deserves the \"L\" label that Canon only puts on their 'best' lenses.  Not only are the pictures *incredibly* sharp, but the focusing is fast (includes a USM motor with overridable manual focus), quiet, and the lens is constructed like a tank.  It's my favorite lens and I highly recommend it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "My best lens.", "unixReviewTime": 998352000, "reviewTime": "08 21, 2001"}
{"reviewerID": "A3NBL1LVUAGU2", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Poison Wood", "helpful": [61, 67], "reviewText": "I was agonizing between this lens and the Canon EF-S 60mm f/2.8 Macro USM.  Basically, the reviews and specifications are similar.  The 100 mm lens is EF while the 60 mm lens is EF-S, so the 100 mm lens is compatible with full frame cameras.  However, most people willing to invest in a full frame camera are probably considering the 100 mm L lens.  My thoughts on comparing the two lenses:1.) Price is similar, with the 60 mm being $100 less only2.) 60 mm lens weighs half as much3.) Both get 5/5 stars with around 100 reviews on Amazon4.) Magnification is the same on both (1:1)5.) You can stay a bit further from your subject with the 100 mm lens at max magnification, 1 ft rather than 8 inchesAnyway, I was unable to decide between the two, and I saw that the 100 mm lens was available from Amazon.  I decided to test-drive it and keep it if I was happy.  My thoughts:1.) The lens didn't seem that extraordinary on my camera, but I was extremely pleased with the results once I looked at them on a big screen.  It's sharp and the colors are beautiful.2.) I thought I'd rather have a 100 mm lens than a 60 mm lens since I already have a 50 mm lens.  However, I think 100 mm is a rather awkward focal length on the non-full frame camera.  It's not long enough to take much in the way of animals and birds, but it's often too long to take pictures of pets or people you're with.  For things in macro, it doesn't make much difference since you're going to be so close to the subject either way.3.) The lens felt very heavy on the camera given that it's a fixed lensFor me, the main argument for the 100 mm over the 60 mm was that I had a 50 mm lens already, and I thought it would be great to have another fixed lens at a different focal length.  The main argument for the 60 mm lens was the weight.  After using the lens, I think the 60 mm is probably a better choice for non-full frame users.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Beautiful lens, but decided to return it", "unixReviewTime": 1281657600, "reviewTime": "08 13, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A1NIX2WA2ZKLV7", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Pushpin", "helpful": [25, 25], "reviewText": "I had always wanted a macro lens but it wasn't on the top of my list. However, when Amazon had a superb deal on the price of this lens a few months ago, I snatched it up instantly.At first, being the novice I am, I wasn't too thrilled about the lens. As someone who WAS accustomed to pointing and shooting with my Rebel T3i, the lens was difficult to use, blurry and slow to focus and I had expected something more out of the most expensive lens in my amateur lens set-up. It took me some time to figure out how to work the lens but this only encouraged me to explore the camera and my photography in new ways.Some things I learned using this lens that will probably be beneficial to beginning photographers and those who are new to macro-photography:First of all, this lens works best with a good tripod if you are using it for its' macro capabilities. Once I learned that, it makes the lens much more enjoyable to use. I find that handheld and with autofocus on it can do portrait and landscape pictures decently. Handheld macro shots ARE possible but I personally find that there are not as sharp as when I use I tripod. There is a noticeable difference in sharpness... this lens can be insanely sharp!Secondly, the autofocus does not work that great for macro mode. This is not a bad thing. I usually turn off the autofocus and focus manually using the screen rather than the viewfinder and then use the digital magnification capabilities on my T3i to really sharpen the parts of the photo I want to focus on. I don't have a remote so I set the 2-second timer on my camera and take pictures that way. Without autofocus on, you can determine what areas of the the photo to highlight creatively and take advantage of its sharpness. This process may be a little slow and tedious for some people.Thirdly, it's not a microscope. I was initially disappointed that I could not stand inches away from an object and look at it's molecular breakdown. Haha. Shows my initial naivete but magnification capabilities from a distance allows you to photograph insects and animals without invading their space.I also use this shot for tripod telephoto shots. It can take some pretty amazing and sharp night shots (with a good tripod!) so I love that it is a very multipurpose lens despite being a macro lens.I love the USM motor. It is a bit slower than I expected but I assign that to the fact that it's a macro lens. It is super quiet and has introduced me to a level of quality beyond the kit and budget Canon lenses I have in my bag. For budget photographers, this can be a dangerous descent into lens acquisition syndrome.This lens definitely isn't for everyone. If you're a stubborn point and shooter with no desire/need for creative photography, this lens may not benefit you and will probably frustrate you. However, if you are willing to be patient and thoughtful, you can learn to make some amazing shots with this lens and expand your photographic creativity. If you dislike having to use a tripod and have money to splurge, there is the much more expensive L, image stabailization version of this lens.I also use this lens for my eBay listings and I feel that it really helps my items pop on the search results compared to competing listings. Highly recommended.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I am SPOILED by this lens! review from a beginning photographer", "unixReviewTime": 1329436800, "reviewTime": "02 17, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A11GHM8Q3IEXHI", "asin": "B00004XOM3", "reviewerName": "Richard B. Williams \"huge nerd\"", "helpful": [322, 327], "reviewText": "This is the lens I leave on my camera for general purpose use.  At non-macro focus distances, it is a very fast lens in a convenient short-telephoto length.  The images are sharp out to the corners.  This is one of those great Canon lenses that probably deserves an L-series rating but is available without the red stripe and exorbitant cost.Tested in an astrophotography context (point sources on black backgrounds - excellent for revealing aberration and coma), I have found that this lens is reasonably sharp at f/4 and completely sharp by f/5.6.  For daylight terrestrial photography, the tiny aberrations caused by the wide-open f/2.8 aperture are hardy noticeable and by f/4 the images are exquisitely sharp.There is a lot of glass in this lens - it is heavy.  I highly recommend buying the tripod collar as it allows you to attach the camera and lens to a tripod or ballhead with much better balance.Also, if you plan on using the macro functionality, keep in mind that the effective f-stop of the lens goes way up when you're focusing at very close range.  At 15cm from the front surface, it performs as though it were an f/9.  You'll either want a lot of light or a very steady subject and a good tripod (another reason to buy the hideously overpriced tripod collar).", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "An extremely versatile lens.", "unixReviewTime": 1105056000, "reviewTime": "01 7, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2EXYGIW2QAI1Z", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Ahamed B. Iqbal", "helpful": [35, 35], "reviewText": "I sold my 70-200 4.0L lens in order to get this lens and I am very happy with my decision.The ability to shoot at 2.0 aperture gives you the ability to completely blur distracting elements from the background of your subject.As with all L series lenses, the image quality, sharpness, color and contrast are all excellent.Also like all L series lenses, this lens is built very solidly. Keep in mind that this lens may feel somewhat large and bulky to those who haven't used L series lenses before. The extra bulk is because of more high quality glass and the use of more durable materials (metal vs. plastic). I've grown to like the stability and the weight of the lens.The focal length of 135 is not for everyone, on a full frame camera (film or the 5D for example), 135mm is a great portrait lens that allows you to isolate the face instead of just the head.On a digital camera with a crop factor (like the 20D, digital rebels or the 30D), the 135 becomes something like a 210mm lens. This may be too much for  portraiture though it would be useful as a lowlight or indoor sports lens.The only real negative thing I have to say is that the lens cap is very annoying to take off when the supplied hood is attached (not much room for your fingers to get to the releases). {see the customer photos} I generally take the hood off and then take the lens cap off. Another option would be to get a different lens cap with a center release (Tamron makes these).", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great portrait and walkaround lens", "unixReviewTime": 1171411200, "reviewTime": "02 14, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A24TPCRJUR7JHZ", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Ashish Jain", "helpful": [10, 14], "reviewText": "About me: I do photography as my only hobby and have decent skills. I use a Canon 6D full frame and often get pictures which are appreciated by many. Personally, i am very unforgiving on my pics, zoom everything to 100% and like to count hairs in eyelashes. I do little bit of editing on each and every picture in Lightroom or Elements 11.I already have following lenses: Canon 17-40 F/4 L, Tamron SP 28-75 F/2.8, Canon 50 1.4, Canon 85 1.8 and Canon 70-300mm F/4-5.6 IS USM (non L).I used and sold the following in the past: Canon 24-105 F/4 L, Canon 28mm 2.8 IS, 50mm 1.8, 40mm 2.8 pancake.I use Canon EF 12 extension tube for occasional macro needs, have two 430 EX II flashes and Yougnuo 622C remote triggers.70% of my photography is about people/portraits and most of it till date has been covered by Canon 50 1.4 and 85 1.8 (and sometimes with Tamron 28-75 when outdoors).I was speculating buying this lens or Canon 70-200 2.8 IS II. Honestly, i can't buy 70-200 for the following reasons:1) Cost - Most important... i don't have $2500 in my pocket at the moment and can't buy at this price after seeing it for $2200 and waiting for better deal but price moved upwards.2) White color and size although i could have lived with weight if i had money and it were black.3) 1 stop slower aperture than 135mm L although it has 4 stop IS. At times, I can use a tripod or monopod with 135mm and negate its disadvantage of no IS. Personally, i prefer wide aperture over IS and often find ways of reducing shake by supporting my body weight and hands against some object/wall, pausing/stopping  my breath for a few seconds, keeping elbows close to ribcage, etc.4) My main subject most of time is my 2.5 year old who is always in action and 2.8 is sometimes slow to freeze action in average lit home conditions.135mm is very specialized focal length and not very versatile. I will advise people with crop bodies to stay away until it is very careful decision.Even with a full frame, it was a tough decision for me since i use 85 1.8 and 50mm 1.8 a lot which covers me well and felt that 135 could be a overkill.I rented a Canon 70-200 F/4.0L IS just to try what people are raving about. No, that is not my cup of tea. I knew that F4 is slow but still tried because of amazing reviews. Honestly, i believe that lens is only for good light unless you like high ISO pictures, that's not me. Even on 6D, i try to keep ISO within 2000 and mostly under 1600.I also tried 70-200 F/2.8 IS ii in lens rental shop with my Canon 6D, just took a couple of pics and was really impressed once i came home and downloaded the pics to my computer. It blew away the similar shots taken with 70-200 F/4 IS.I practiced to use 135mm length on my 70-300, didn't like it, still pulled the trigger because of 100 bucks off deal on 135 L.It arrived today, now realized that 135mm focal length on a full frame is not bad when it is giving such a fantastic image quality. Its little long indoors and frequently i find myself pushing my back into walls to get some more space. Anyway, i bought it for outdoors and spacious interiors. My 50 and 85 still be my choice in small spaces.I took it in balcony along with 70-300 and shot pictures to compare. 135mm L clearly outperforms 70-300 at 135mm. Also, the cropped picture of 135L was almost as good as 70-300 at 300mm. These pics were shot handheld and remember the IS on 70-300.Although, 70-300 is a good lens in its price range. I will be selling it since it will no longer find a space in my bag when i go out and its of no use at home due to nice primes i have. If possible, i could have kept it to cover that focal range with IS.I am yet to try 135mm with my Kenko 1.4 DGX pro extender.I will be updating my review after a few months of use. Giving 5 stars the very first day since it made a place in my heart on first use. Amazon doesn't allow 4.5 stars else could have rated it 4.5 to start with, even a 4 star can bring its rating down from perfect 5!I wish canon start upgrading longer prime lenses with IS instead of putting IS on  24, 28mm and 35mm primes.My future lenses could be:1) 70-200 F/2.8 IS ii or 100-400L depending on my interests and finances in the future, neither of them will replace 135L or any of my primes.2) Might replace 85mm 1.8 with 85 1.2, again time and finance will decide.3) Possibly replace 50mm 1.4 with 35mm 1.4 L at some point of time to configure my kit better although 50mm 1.4 is an amazing piece of glass.For people on budget, i highly recommend 85mm 1.8 on full frame and 50mm 1.4 on crop for portraits.Finally choosing between 135 L and 70-200 2.8 IS II: This is a tough choice if you have to buy one.Professionals should go for 70-200 for its versatility since they may not like to change lenses too much during an event and probably can justify spending so much.Amateurs: Go for 135mm prime if you wish to create magic/piece of art. Professional photography is mostly about taking pictures that is acceptable to client or exceed their expectations. Being an amateur is a bliss in photography, we can afford to shoot 'when ever we wish' rather than 'when ever have to' and it is easier for us to change lens.------------------------------------------------------------------------------Edit: 30-Oct-13I have used this lens for a almost 3 months and have taken more than 1000 pic with it so far. Here is my observation:1) I find 135mm very good for portraits where you have space for this focal length. As stated earlier, the disadvantage is lack of versatility. It it too narrow when situation demands something little wider and it is always short when situation demands something telephoto. That is where 70-200 F/2.8 IS excels, 135mm demands lens change frequently or you should have more than 1 camera body. If i have 2 full frame bodies, i can put 135mm permanently on 1 of them.2) Although it is F/2.0, i use it mostly in daylight/dawn/dusk instead of low light situations. It is really that good wide open, i use it 90% of time at F/2.3) Although, glass is simply flawless/perfect, still i feel that Canon should think of releasing Mark II, this lens could benefit from following:- Image Stabilization: This is a mixed bag, IS will make this lens better than everything else ever made but at the same time, lens will become considerably costlier and most people won't wish to put so much $$$ in fixed 135mm. Probably, 2 versions without IS and with IS like 70-200 lenses? There could be buyers for both kinds.- I find that it hunts for focus just a little more than newer L lenses, so Canon has some scope for improvement here.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Edit: 16-April-2014:This lens has become the benchmark for judging/evaluating other lenses. I used to love my 85mm F/1.8 USM before purchasing 135mm F/2 L but not anymore. Also, i have lost love for my 50mm F/1.4, 135mm has changed the way i look at pictures, i look for perfection. It can shoot full wide open at F/2, very sharp with no CA or color fringes. In contrast, my 85mm F/1.8 becomes sharp only at F/2.8 and still there is lot of CA and color fringes which i didn't notice earlier when i had nothing to compare against.So, count it as a 'con' or disadvantage for 135mm F/2 L that it will kill your other lenses. My 85mm 1.8 is up for sale, i am retaining 50mm 1.4 just because it my widest prime and most importantly it is 1.4 which i will replace with 35mm 1.4 only when i have money.With the high standards set up by 135mm, i still like my Tamron 28-75 F/2.8 which i really recommend to everyone if you don't have money for Canon 24-70 f/2.8. If i need to live with only 2 lens, these will be Canon 135mm F/2 L and Tamron 28-75 F/2.8Recommendation: Don't purchase it for crop body if you are not sure of the focal length, it might be too long for you. If possible, rent it for a weekend. Without IS, you will be able to use it handheld only in very good light since you will need to maintain a shutter speed of over 1/200 and at the same time, usable ISO capability of crop sensor is limited. I am writing this since i have seen a lot of people in forums asking it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "In love with first use (Edit: Love getting deeper with time)", "unixReviewTime": 1375747200, "reviewTime": "08 6, 2013"}
{"reviewerID": "AROQO2VDODT7", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Branden", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "This is my only lens longer than 50mm, because it's all I need. I am shooting this both film and digitally, and both full-frame and 1.6x crop.I have bought and sold an embarrassingly large number of other long lenses (70-200 f/4L IS, 70-200 f/2.8L IS II, 180L, 100 macro, 135 SF, 100 f/2, 85 f/1.8, 70-300 DO, 70-300L, 200L, off the top of my head) before realizing that this single, compact, light-weight, high quality, discreet, constrasty lens is all that I really needed. (Seriously, I've owned all those at one point -- cutting down on clutter is like a breath of fresh air.)This lens, at least for my shooting style, really does it all:* 135mm is an excellent long portrait length* f/2 is very fast, and allows for long shots at dark events where flash isn't allowed or desired* image quality if superb in all uses, but equally holds up for landscape photos where compression of distant vistas is desiredI love having this one simple option that covers me in so many different situations. Every photographer has their own shooting style as well as their favorite subjects, but if you primarily shoot landscapes, events, and portraits, then I highly recommend trying out this long lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "My only long lens", "unixReviewTime": 1326412800, "reviewTime": "01 13, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A1AHSLKOKA3MC3", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Bruce", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I couldn't understand how a lens could get such high ratings until I purchased one for myself. Wow! I guess what makes this lens so amazing, especially for portraiture, is the way it captures a sharp image against a beautifully blurred (bokeh) background. Using this lens, and seeing the photos, people tell me, \"I've never been able to get photos as beautiful as those.\" My secret? I let the lens do the work! BTW, this is a handy 220mm f/2 lens on my Digital Rebel.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Phenomenal lens for portraits!", "unixReviewTime": 1165968000, "reviewTime": "12 13, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1EVLOB1B8JFDI", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Carlton Ward \"redjelly39\"", "helpful": [22, 26], "reviewText": "At a recent NYE event, I shot a lot of photos in a concert setting without a flash and am very impressed with the sharpness & clarity of this lens performance. Its so fast and the colors are vibrant. I am not a seasoned pro but with the 20D and this lens, it makes me look pretty close. I did shoot in manual and once I got my aperture & shutter speed dialed in, it pumped out a lot of great pics.I have also shot some pics of waterfalls (slowing down my shutter speed to get that soft flowing image) and portraits of people and again, it oozed excellence. The 135mm focal range is not as convenient as a zoom, but the quality of this prime lens makes up for any incovenience.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Quality lens - 135mm f/2L", "unixReviewTime": 1136764800, "reviewTime": "01 9, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A30C8WHQ2CYFO4", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "David Siegfried", "helpful": [15, 20], "reviewText": "After having read the glowing reviews of this lens, and after consistently seeing it at or near the top of all those \"best Canon lenses\" lists, I recently purchased this lens used (from that famous internet auction site). I shoot mostly nature photography and am not a professional portrait photographer, but I was anxious to try this lens out for its famous depth of field isolation and sharpness -- this lens has been reported to be among the sharpest, if not THE sharpest lens that Canon makes.I have to say that my first results were quite disappointing with this lens. I have been using the Canon 70-200mm f/4 IS lens, which produces the sharpest and most consistently in-focus shots of any lens I have ever used. The image stabilization on that lens is fantastic, and adds at least 4 stops of \"hand hold-ability\". I have used it hand-held with the Canon 5D Mark II, the Canon T2i and the Canon 60D and it always produces remarkably clear in-focus shots in available daylight conditions, particularly at the 200mm end which is where I use it most. I was expecting that the 135mm f/2 would be as easy to use, since it is two stops brighter, however I found that the lack of IS severely limits the number of \" keepers\" due to random blurs from hand shakiness. My hands are reasonably steady, yet I was not able to consistently produce the crystal clear shots that I was used to with my 70-200 f/4 lens. Plus, the subjects that I shoot such as plants, flowers and wildlife are very three-dimensional and do not reproduce well at the thin depth of field that this lens produces wide open. You only really get a small portion of the plant or animal in focus and the rest out of focus. Also, the closest focusing distance of 3 feet means that I can't get \"up close and personal\" enough to really fill the frame with my subjects the way I can with some of my other lenses which offer macro or pseudo-macro settings.After my initial disappointment, I decided to try this lens out on a tripod and did some portraits, both using available light and using a bounce flash. The results were like night and day. The shots came out very clean wide open, with the eyes in tack sharp focus, and most of the face in focus, and with the nose and ears in slightly soft focus. The background was just a door but the features were completely blended out and it looks like a professional portrait. The controlled environment is where this lens really shines. When you put it on a tripod you really see what this lens can do. It produces a clean but soft quality that the f/4 lens never can achieve. However, I also have the Canon 100mm f/2.8 macro lens and that lens comes close to producing the same quality of background blur that this lens produces. That lens is also MUCH easier to work with hand-held. I guess the shorter length combined with the much lighter weight makes that lens a better choice for nature photography in the field.I feel that this is a great lens that is showing its age. Maybe it's a Canon \"classic\", but I feel that it is in need of an update. Canon has image stabilization on its 100mm macro and its 200mm f/2 lenses and most of the L telephoto zooms, why haven't they added IS to this lens? Sigma has a 150mm f/2.8 lens that has macro, and the brand new version has image stabilization as well. I recently picked up that lens, it's the Sigma 150mm f/2.8 AF APO EX DG OS HSM Macro Lens for Canon Digital SLRs. You can read my review about it here:Sigma 150mm f/2.8 AF APO EX DG OS HSM Macro Lens for Canon Digital SLRsThe Sigma lens compares very favorably to the Canon 135mm for portraits, particularly on the full-frame Canon 5D Mark II. I shot some portraits using the Sigma lens and I thought they came out even better than with the Canon 135. Plus the Sigma lens has two additional things I really want which is true macro AND image stabilization. I usually prefer Canon lenses over Sigma, but in this case Sigma has now one-upped Canon in this focal range.If you are making your living doing portrait photography you will definitely want this lens. It has some unique qualities. But it doesn't really serve my needs, and I don't think it's a particularly good fit for a walk-around lens, due to its lack of versatility. It's a one-purpose lens, and personally I don't want to lug a tripod to the park or nature preserve. As a tripod-mounted portraits I'll still give this lens four stars, but in today's terms of lens technology it falls short of what many lenses can achieve hand-held.I took the lens out a second time and had the same problem with motion blur that I had before. This is definitely a studio lens. I'm glad I had a chance to try out this lens, but it's not my favorite. That's why I love being able to buy and sell lenses on the used market; it's a practically free way to \"rent\" them, and Canon L glass never really loses its value.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great \"classic\" Canon lens that needs an update", "unixReviewTime": 1310688000, "reviewTime": "07 15, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A3472HN9ZPLG4Y", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "E. Burd", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "This is by far the best lens in my kit. I use this with my 24-70 f/2.8L and 85mm f/1.8 lenses. When I was researching buying this lens, many reviews said this was the sharpest lens that Canon makes. They weren't kidding!I can take pictures at f/2 that are incredibly sharp, even indoors. Although it's a very strange focal length for some (many people prefer zooms in this range), I've found that it provides a lot of flexibility for portraits, indoors, close up pictures of flowers and general photography.The sharpness is great at f/2, and only gets better as you stop down to f/8. It's not cheap at $1,000 but it's worth every pennyPros:- Razor sharp pictures, even wide open at f/2- Jaw dropping bokeh (quality of background blur), simply incredible- Excellent color contrast- Relatively small lens, reasonable weight for what it does- A very fat manual focus ring, 1.125 inches wide!- Very fast focus speed- It's black, unlike the 70-200 lenses which are bright white, so you're less conspicuous when taking picturesCons:- None!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "One incredible lens!", "unixReviewTime": 1277683200, "reviewTime": "06 28, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "ALYU98KL3VUGF", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Enche Tjin", "helpful": [18, 20], "reviewText": "This lens is regarded as one of the best three prime lenses that Canon produce (Along with 85mm f/1.2 L USM and 35mm f/1.4 L USM).The images from this lens are very sharp, contrasty and show a lot of details even in wide open at f/2. The depth of field is very shallow at f/2. As a result, the background will be compressed.Because of that features, Canon 135mm is ideal for portrait, especially candid portrait, street photography and indoor sports.Build quality is very good, the best Canon can made. The lens is not as big and heavy as telephoto zoom.But unfortunately, this lens does not have Image Stabilization built-in. Image stabilization in telephoto is quite important so you can shoot with shutter speed lower than the focal length X crop multiplier. For example, when you attach this lens into crop sensor camera such as Canon Rebel series or X0D series, then you need to set a shutter speed to at least 1/200 or greater to get a tack sharp result. It is also depend on how steady your hand is. If you have steady hand, then 1/160 will be adequate.This lens have a decent closing focus (1m) this is better than most of the telephoto zoom range. You can also get a extension tube to get the focusing even closer (.6m with 2x extension tube). Therefore, this lens will be quite good for macro photography.ApplicationThe application of the lens will be quiet narrow. Candid photography is one in my mind when I think about this lens. It is because the telephoto range, maximum aperture, and the size is not that big and obtrusive.The second one will be close-up and head-shoulder portraiture, and then for indoor sports such as volleyball, basketball and so on.The downsideThis lens does not have a wide range of application because the inflexibility of fixed focal length lens (prime lens).Although the focusing is quite fast, but it is not as fast as EF 50mm f/1.4 USM or EF 85mm f/1.8 USM. The AF tracking is poor. So in the fast action sport, expect to miss some shots.Other alternatives:Other lens that you might consider to buy is Canon EF 70-200mm f/2.8 L or 70-200mm f/4 IS.They are similar in price. the 70-200mm f/2.8 has more flexibility but bigger. The 70-200 f/4 L IS is great because it has IS but you don't have the luxury of big aperture. The weight of f4L lens is almost the same, but the length is slightly longer.Other 'budget' telephoto primes alternatives: Canon EF 85mm f/1.8 and 100mm f/2. Both are not as sharp and detailed as the Canon 135mm f/2 but when stopped own to f/2.8-4 they will impressed you.In conclusionYou will love this lens if you are into close-up portrait, candid photography and indoor sports shooters. With extension tube, you can transform this lens into a macro lens.Is it worth it? This lens has a limited application, so if you are specialized in candid portraiture or indoor sports and want the sharpest lens. This lens is definitely for you.If you are looking for more versatile lens, then investing on high quality telephoto zoom lens is a better decision. For sample photos and video tour please visit radiantlite.com", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Awesome lens with a minor flaw", "unixReviewTime": 1244851200, "reviewTime": "06 13, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A2M9GIR4CKZPV7", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Gadget67", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "Other reviewers have already covered the many positive attributes of this lens.  I already own an excellent copy of Canon's 70-200 f/2.8 zoom so I was curious to see how the 135 L would compare with a 1.4 TC installed.  The 135 is MUCH sharper and has noticeably better IQ (image quality) from f/2.8 to f/8--so much sharper that I am considering selling the 70-200.  The Zoom is more convenient and still produces great pictures, but I will be more likely to reach for the 135 L plus the 1.4 TC when shooting at 200 mm (135 L + 1.4 TC = 189 mm).  At 135 mm this lens produces absolutely STELLAR results.  I am currently using it on a 40D crop camera so it is a little long for portrait work but I purchased it with an eventual move to Full Frame in mind.  You absolutely cannot go wrong here if you are in the market for this focal length.  Five stars don't seem like enough!!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "About as sharp as they come...", "unixReviewTime": 1202860800, "reviewTime": "02 13, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A2NSMJVQY0RV9S", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "J. Howell", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I have owned this lens since 2005 and it was my first \"L\" lens.  The fact that this is the oldest lens in my arsenal really says something.  I have bought and sold so much equipment in the past 10 years that I would struggle to recall every lens I've owned.  This lens, however, has never left me.  I have used it so much that the focus motor literally died two years ago.  A $200 repair later, it was back up and running and hasn't missed a beat ever since.People nitpick over all aspects of lens performance, but this is one lens that I can confidently say has no real weaknesses.  It's super sharp across the frame on a full frame camera - even at F2.0.  Bokeh is strong, smooth, and uniform.  The out of focus highlights are perfect.  Chromatic aberration resistance is among the best.  Focusing is probably faster than anything short of the multi-thousand dollar super-telephotos.  The lens body is plastic, but it's the high grade \"engineering plastic\" that is light, super durable, and probably just as tough as most metal bodies.Why would you get this lens over a 70-200/2.8?  It's smaller, lighter, and sharper than anything short of a 70-200/2.8 IS II (the one that is $2300).  You can be discreet with this thing. With a 70-200/2.8, you can't.  You can also use this lens for a much longer period of time without fatigue than you can a 70-200/2.8.For the price you pay, this lens is a slice of optical heaven.  You're not going to get any better than this lens for less than $4000.  It's an absolute bargain at $1000.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Supurb, technically flawless", "unixReviewTime": 1315785600, "reviewTime": "09 12, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A16MLF6AHD5FXB", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Joel Jenkins \"unculturedswine\"", "helpful": [18, 19], "reviewText": "I've had this lens for about 5 months I think.... and it's incredible. The bokeh is unreal, sharpness is fantastic... it's just amazing. I'd say it is a hard lens to shoot with though, you really have to be careful with the focus, on portrait/face shots, if you put your center focus on the nose, the eyes will be blurry (this is at f2)... so, the DOF can be extremely shallow for that.It's heavy and solid, the USM focus is awesome and very fast. I have NO complaints about this lens. It was my first L and my first big lens buy, but you can't go wrong. I can't give this lens enough stars. There are a lot of shots on my photoblog that were taken with this....[...]UPDATE - May 2008This is by far my favorite lens, nothing really compares. I just wanted to add that even at 135mm, or 210 on my 20D, I still use it more often than I should. I'll happily stand further away to use it instead of my fabulous 50 1.8. When you get used to the results that this produces, you'll try to use it for everything but landscape.UPDATE - OCT 2009I've now purchased the 5D Mark II and this lens is even more fantastic. The sharpness is almost too hard to believe. You can't go wrong with this lens. I'll buy the 1.4TC soon and have a near 200mm F2.8. Perfect.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Absolutely STUNNING", "unixReviewTime": 1167523200, "reviewTime": "12 31, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1AJYDP4DQRXIL", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Judge J Drhedd", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I compared both in a camera store in Hong Kong (attendant graciously let me test both). I mounted, test-shot. swapped, re-mounted, test-shot several times, before finally deciding 100% to buy this 135.In evaluating a portrait lens, bokeh of course should be the prime consideration. The 85 1.2 offers a 'surreally-too-creamy' bokeh. Perhaps it's just my taste, but it's too corny for me. This 135 on the other hand brings that artsy 3d, real delineation at f2. Although again, it's just my personal taste perhaps..But beyond my personal taste, the 85mm f1.2 is really more than double the price of 135mm f2. I bought this 135mm for 6100 HKD (785 USD), while 85 is priced at a non-negotiable 15,100 HKD (1930 USD)! The mount of the 85 at the back also has a worrisome, exposed glass that is too precarious when you mount and dismount frequently.I also tested 85 at f2 and this 135 at f2, and aharpness of both lens is also about the same to me. The wrinkles, brows, freckles are all crisp.The 85 is also noticeably slower in autofocusing (at same f2)The only downside for me of 135 is that you have to walk way way back from your subject to get the whole face. But I can imagine this brings the other advantage of shooting candid shots from a far. Candid shots, [just] to me, are the real priceless shots of people.This is now the proud portrait lens in my bag. You wont go wrong, as well. Highly recommended!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Versus the 85 f1.2, this is the better portrait lens!", "unixReviewTime": 1221177600, "reviewTime": "09 12, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A2BZBCVDXE3R43", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Leo S \"Honest opinion\"", "helpful": [29, 74], "reviewText": "I have been using this lens for about 9 month. Once my extensive research was completed I pulled the trigger and purchased the lens. Unfortunately I do not understand what people are raving about? For portraits on my 5d mark2 I much prefer a simpleCanon EF 85mm f/1.8 USM Medium Telephoto Lens for Canon SLR Camerasfor less than half the price. However the lens that eventually replaced this wasCanon EF 100mm f/2.8L IS USM 1-to-1 Macro Lens for Canon Digital SLR Cameras, for about the same price. I really like tack sharp resolution and both of the lenses I kept do just that with a great Bokeh in my opinion. I think that this is probably just an old design, which just does not keep up with the nicer digital sensors. It may be OK on some smaller and older APS-C sensors, but I just do not like the sharpness, especially that it missed way too many times for me. I gave this lens as much time as I could, but in the end I am much happier with the other two lenses, which serve me very well. And in the end you could probably stop it down to F4 and I think the sharpness will get pretty good, but then why am I paying for an F2 which by the way 100mm macro does tack sharp at F/2.8 with beautiful Bokeh, but it is a much newer lens design.4/12/2012 Edit:Upon reading the comments here I have given this lens a few more chances. Here is what I have found:1. There was a user error and I was asking this lens to do what it was not designed to do. Namely I used it to close near it's MFD which it does poorly ( especially on my 5d m2 ).2. I was demanding exceptional sharpness wide open. Not on a $1000 lensBarring these two I find this lens a great choice for some situations. Namely if you want a lens similar to Canon 70-200 F/2.8 IS II, but with half the weight and half the size and black stealth vs white glare, I find this lens very useful. If I have to shoot in the dark at 2.0 I just accept the sharpness loss. In the day I use it between 2.8 and 4.0 and as long as I don't have to have the zoom it saves me lots of weight and size as well as it's much more stealthy. Yes the build quality is very good, but filter size sucks. Though I think the new 24-70 m2 will be the same size. So in conclusion this is a very old design and looses in many ways to the newer sexier designs. However for the money and certain situations this is a great lens to own and carry.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Really expected a lot more", "unixReviewTime": 1317513600, "reviewTime": "10 2, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A2VZHT3WH73GTB", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Mark J. Minasi", "helpful": [18, 21], "reviewText": "When I first acquired Canon Lens Collecting Syndrome about three years ago, I thought to get a few primes, as Common Wisdom runs that primes are uniformly better than zooms.  I needed a portrait lens, looked at the 135 f/2 prime and thought \"hey, that'll probably work ... f/2 will make for nice bokeh and all the books say to use an 85 mm for portraits but I've got a 1.6 crop, so 135's probably the way to go.\"  I also eventually got a 400 mm prime for wildlife.Looking at my three years' worth of wildlife pictures, most of the real eye-poppers... were with the 135.  The 400's sharp (especially when on a tripod), but the 135 simply blows away every other lens I own.  Yup, I do portraits with it sometimes, but in general it is my \"go-to\" lens when something neat's wandering through the backyard.The other day the \"something\" was a gray fox.  It was on the ground, I was on a top level deck with no time to get downstairs, and the sun was setting.  I grabbed the camera (which had the 135 on it already), got a few shots despite the dim light... and they're beautiful.  Couldn't have done it without f/2.Nine hundred bucks is a lot of money for a lens.  But if knew then what I know now, I might only own this lens, the f/5.6 400, the f/1.4 50mm, the 17-40, and perhaps the f/4 70-200 IS.  This 135 will make you look like a much better photographer than you are.  (At least it does for me!)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "This blasted lens makes my other lenses look terrible!", "unixReviewTime": 1200960000, "reviewTime": "01 22, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A3C0EP2G95BRLT", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "M. OLSON", "helpful": [17, 17], "reviewText": "I really wrestled with which lens I was going to get (thanks be to God I even had the choice to make), and went with the 135mm over the 70-200 2.8 IS II for the following reasons:1. The 135 is sharper.2. 135 is one stop faster.3. 135 is a touch brighter.4. 135 is about 1/2 the size (4.4 in. vs. 7.8 in.) and 1/2 the weight (750g vs. 1490g) as the 70-200.5. 135 does not stand out like a sore thumb. Perhaps some people like the attention getting white LAWs rocket appearance, but I'd rather not announce to the world I'm carrying around something worth a used car on my neck. (I've even considered covering up the red ring on my lenses.)6. The 70-200 is $1300 more money!Cons:Now what people have to consider with the 135 is that being a fixed lens, you will be doing a lot of moving back and forth, and that takes some getting used to. Not to mention, if you have a cropped sensor camera (about anything that's not a 5D or 1D), this lens will probably be too long for you, since it will be over 200 mm. Even with a full frame sensor, I still have to get some big distance to take full body shots. This lens is more for head and shoulder shots. It also does not have the Image Stabilization, so you have to be pretty steady if you are shooting at slow shutter speeds. That's not too much of a problem if you have a good ISO, or shoot in decent lighting most of the time. I can get tack sharp at 1/60, and just shot a great window light pic at 400 ISO, 1/60, and f2/0, so it does fine indoors.I already have a 24-70 f/2.8 on another camera, so I don't have to switch lenses if I'm doing a wedding shoot or something. But if you are not in that boat, then having the zoom would seem to be much more flexible than being stuck with a fixed lens.This is not a knock of the 70-200 2.8, and believe you me, if I had the extra money, I'd be super excited to add it to my lenses! But some more details influencing  my decision is that I already have the f/4 70-200, so I've got the same focus (though not the extra stop, nor the IS, which would be awesome!)I don't think a person would be disappointed to go with either lens, but I'm just here to tell you that I'm extremely pleased with everything about the 135mm. It's light, small, super fast, great bokeh, and much more affordable! Maybe it's just the newness of it, but since I've gotten this lens, the 24-70 has been in the bag unless I'm in the studio, or really need wide. Love this lens outside!! Could show you some awesome pictures!!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "This rather than the 70-200 2.8 IS II", "unixReviewTime": 1338076800, "reviewTime": "05 27, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "AG0ZWTL8FN2W", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Neil Bruce Dinces \"Ace man\"", "helpful": [32, 35], "reviewText": "Despite reading glowing reviews about this lens, I was still surprised to see how well it performed.  The lens is SO sharp you can get very good cropped pictures of running athletes, from a distance of three quarters of a Football field away, shooting hand held, with late afternoon light, which will print a 5x7 and still look like a Pro took them!If you want a tack sharp lens for indoor sports pictures and can't afford, or otherwise do not want another long lens for outdoor sports pictures, then you should give this lens your serious consideration.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Surprised", "unixReviewTime": 1144195200, "reviewTime": "04 5, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1PCSR74FXU868", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Neil Kirby", "helpful": [38, 40], "reviewText": "I shoot this on a 5D Mark II full-frame camera, so the 135mm is an actual 135mm for me.Since it is very hard to find fault with the lens (aside from the fact that they make you pay for it), I will stick with the highlights.At f2.0, this is one bright lens.  It means having the stop you need to rip a hand-held shot that you only get one crack at.  It's native task is people pictures, so when shooting candids you either get the moment or you don't, and with this one f2.0 means you can get it in available light.  I don't like spooking/annoying people with a flash.  This lens lets me shoot from the other side of a normal room, outside of people's personal space and possibly outside their notice. In a larger room, you get tight groups of people.  It's probably a touch too long on a crop-sensor body, but this is such a sweet lens that it would be worth it to rent one to see.When you aren't shooting candids \"in the wild\" and switch to posed portraiture, it gets even better.  Fast to focus, nice perspective, but you might have to \"frame with your feet\" to get everybody into the shot.The weight is quite reasonable and the handling is sweet.  There is a break point in lens weight for me.  This one is light enough to shoot comfortably a long while.  TheCanon EF 24-70mm f/2.8Lby comparison is just over that line, that one is a touch on the heavy side and not as sweet to work.  The two are somewhat close in size and weight, but the 135 f2.0 feels far lighter and handles better.  When you have to move *now* this lens is just light enough that you might get off a one-handed shot without spilling the drink in your left hand.Exquisite backgrounds.  All those other comments people have posted about it are all true.Incredible detail.  This is one very sharp lens.  It gives all of those pixels on the 5d something worthwhile to do.  Every individual eyelash is sacred to this lens.This thing sees better in the dark than I do.  With the high ISO capabilities of the 5D mark II, you can take other-worldly night-time shots on available light and hand hold them.  \"What did you do to get the sky that color?\"  \"The sky *was* that color, this is a night-time shot.\"You do have to watch your depth of field and focus point like a hawk.  You can play games and do some powerfully artistic stuff that way, especially with people's hair.If the focal length is anywhere near right for your situation, the results will be well worth every penny.UPDATE 24-May-2013After three years with this lens, it's still my favorite.We have discovered an additional capability.http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000U8Y88M/ref=ox_ya_os_productThe Kenko extension tubes lets you get closer than the normal 3' minimum focus distance of the 135L.  For example, the 36mm extension tube added to this lens lets you get \"up close and personal\" (one foot away) and still have usable focus range.  You can use combinations of the tubes to get the camera as close as you need.  As with all macro setups, depth of field is razor thin.  The solution, if your objects do not move, is \"focus stacking.\"  It does for focus what HDR does for exposure.  Focus stacking software combines multiple images and uses the best details in the combined image.Extension tubes are highly demanding of the lens.  You need a bright, sharp lens to use them effectively and the 135L is both bright (f/2.0) and sharp.I have gotten some other-worldly macro shots this way.  The detail is so good and so visually enticing that it has you checking out the cost of 16 x 24 inch and larger prints.Since I shoot people more often than macro, the 135L plus tubes is a better match for my needs than using a slower-to-focus dedicated macro lens when shooting portraiture.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Perfect for \"head hunting\" and more.", "unixReviewTime": 1266364800, "reviewTime": "02 17, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A1QNYLBG73QRNF", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Neurasthenic \"neurasthenic\"", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "Previously, I relied on Canon's EF 28-135mm f/3.5-5.6 IS lens for modest telephoto images. There is *no comparison* between the images that the 135mm lens produces and that zoom. The difference is not merely that the fixed lens is a lot faster (in practice, I rarely go wider than f2.8 anyway; the depth of field becomes too narrow for my taste). Rather, the pictures are sharper, colors are brighter, and people seem to have a strong preference for the bokeh in pictures taken with this lens. More than once, I've been asked \"How do you blur the background like that?\"You might expect that a fast lens is particularly useful indoors in natural light, and it does produce great results in such conditions, but I've also taken wonderful photos with this lens of children playing outdoors.No image stabilization, but I've never missed it. I've had mixed results with other Canon lenses but this is by far the best of the lot, I've no criticism of it at all.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The best EF lens I own, by far", "unixReviewTime": 1204502400, "reviewTime": "03 3, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A1HTB488P5GRCP", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Roy", "helpful": [145, 154], "reviewText": "I believe this is one of the best lens for about $1000. Forget about zoom lenses even if they are L. This lens is far better than 70-200L in my opinion. It is very sharp at f2 and even more sharp at f2.5. With zoom lenses you have to set to f/5.6 for better result and f/8 to match this lens. It is very well built but not excessive heavy, come with hood and bag, but unfortunately, Canon have decided to remove the hard cases for all the L lenses.Combined with a Tamron 1.4X teleconverter this lens provide very good optical quality on par with any zoom L lenses at 189mm focal length. Yes I know I lost the convenience of a 70-200 zoom lens. But I am really happy that I decide to change the plan of buying a 70-200IS to 135/2L+1.4X. This not only saves me the money but also let me to get better pictures, especially at wide open. Better portrait lenses, like 200/1.8 and 300/2.8, would cost several thousands of dollars. Trust me, once you play with primes, you will not like zoom anymore.I am also using a 24-70L to shoot my small kid. After using this lens, I don't like it anymore and thinking about change to primes someday, the only reason preventing me doing that is the 1.6X crop factor of digital camera. A 35mm/1.4L will become 56mm which is really not good.Order from Amazon with free shipping even though it says not in stock. They shipped mine in 2 days and this happened before even though item stated \"in stock soon\".Pros:Very sharp at f2 and super sharp start from f2.5.Very fast lens with f/2Very good bokeh (background blurring).Overall extremely good picture quality with good contrast/color.Smaller size, less weight and black color compare to those white 70-200s.It is a L lens: best build quality, fast/quiet ring USM AF with FTM.Cons:No hard case.No inexpensive.Effective focal length is 216mm on 10D/20D/Rebel/300D which is a little difficult to use for portrait.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "One of the best Canon lens for about $1000", "unixReviewTime": 1101859200, "reviewTime": "12 1, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A2NAVGRYYEW3DM", "asin": "B000053HC5", "reviewerName": "Stuntman Mike", "helpful": [17, 18], "reviewText": "This lens is legendary.  I know why it has a cult following now.  Unbelievable image quality.  Tack sharp and it really isolates your subject.I have a 70-200 f/4L and it is almost obsolete now.  The 135's sharp images let you crop out a good picture if the focal length is shorter than you'd like.The size and color of the lens doesn't scream \"telephoto\" either, which can come in handy these days.5/5 - Would buy it again in a second.***Update***  It is March 2011, and this lens still amazes me.  Best lens I own by a long shot (and a good investment as well).-Mike", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "WOW", "unixReviewTime": 1286496000, "reviewTime": "10 8, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A1R7WSYAM251NQ", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "A. Hung", "helpful": [11, 20], "reviewText": "Disclaimer: I am an amateur photographer, and lots of people have commented already on the qualities of this lens, so I won't be making  a review on that.  I got this lens yesterday, and I am using it with a Canon 40d.Here is my review:  if for some reason you are considering using this lens as your walk-around lens, don't.  For all the things a walk-around lens should be, this one is not (save for being relatively affordable, and having great IQ).  It's conspicuous in both size and color, heavy, and IMO the focal range is not flexible enough for walk-around duties.This is probably pretty obvious to most people, but for some it might not be.  So, there you go. It is GREAT for me though, and agree with others who say this is a very good value lens.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Definitely NOT a walk-around lens", "unixReviewTime": 1191024000, "reviewTime": "09 29, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1EVLOB1B8JFDI", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "Carlton Ward \"redjelly39\"", "helpful": [15, 15], "reviewText": "I bought the Canon f/4 70-200mm L lens to go with my 20D along with the Tamron f/2.8 28-75mm. I am still learning how to make my camera work to its potential and have taken great pics at a Japanese garden and at a Zoo. I took some good shots with both lenses but after setting the camera up differently I noticed a huge difference. The Canon lens just blew me away. The only thing I used photoshop for was to crop and resize. I didn't need to tweak the levels or sharpness very much and some pics, not at all. I have no complaints with the Tamron (especially for the price) but this Canon \"L\" glass is the quality I knew existed but didn't think I could afford. From now on, I will not hesitate to spend the x-tra money for the Canon L glass.You cant go wrong buying this lens and from other reviews, it is very close in quality as the f/2.8 but half the price.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Wow - L Glass Rocks.", "unixReviewTime": 1133395200, "reviewTime": "12 1, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A4WEZJOIZIV4U", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "Chuck Bittner \"Disabled comedian & gamer!\"", "helpful": [21, 44], "reviewText": "The key wth this lens is the constant f/4 it keeps this maximum apature through the zoom range.  I'm going with the 70-300 usm/IS when the funds avail themselves.  that it's black and has IS is worth sharpness to me.Pros:  Fast focus, smaller size, excellent sharp, good priceCons:  Tripod collar sold separatelyPros:  Not too heavy (although a batgrip would help to balance in the XT's case), super-fast autofocus, very sharp pictures.Cons:  The lens hood. White color.if your a newbie here's some infoA lens is \"fast\" when it has a low f-stop... ok so when you have a smaller number the apature is bigger which allows more light through, so this means you can up the shutter speed. and still have enough light reach the sensor.ok so lets say you have an out door shot if you have say an f/4 lens the shutter speed could be 1/250 of a second and you would get a good exposer. Now this lens can only go f/4but if you in the same outdoor setting, had an f/2.8 lens you could jump to 1/500 of a second and get the same exposer. and freeze the action mmore effectivly, this i believe is why it's a \"fast\" lens.ok have fun and get it done", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "9.5 out of 10 by users review site L quality", "unixReviewTime": 1134777600, "reviewTime": "12 17, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AWAV9TGXRIXI", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "Cory Geurts", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "This review is for the Canon EF 70-200mm f/4 L USM zoom lens.  I initially had some reservations about this particular lens, but it's been excellent since day one and I'm glad I bought it.  It has earned a permanent place in my camera bag, and I highly recommend it.  Here's why.So many versions of the 70-200mm L USM lens are available.  You can get it with or without IS, as f/2.8 or f/4, and now the f/2.8 IS USM Mark II model is on the market.  The f/2.8 versions are quite a bit more expensive, and from what everybody says, heavy.My camera is a Canon 50D.  I try to only buy lenses that have an aperture of f/2.8 or faster, but the outstanding price of this L lens together with reading all the complaints about the weight on the f/2.8 version were enough to persuade me to buy this lens.  I really haven't noticed much benefit from Image Stabilization on other Canon lenses I own, and actually find that under low-light conditions IS can sometimes cause the AF to hang-up and flash a \"busy\" message, so I didn't see the need to pay extra for the IS version of this lens.  I just planned on using a tripod all the time with this lens.....turns out that under most conditions, this is not necessary.My first photos taken with this lens were hand-held and under low light, and the color and sharpness was fabulous - just what I've come to expect from L glass.  A few days later went out for some landscape shots and forgot to bring my tripod.  Again, excellent color and clarity, and no blurry shots at 'reasonable' shutter speeds.  For landscape I found I could get a decent panorama at 70mm and then zoom in on a monument at 200mm.  During this shoot I needed to take a few portrait shots, and again thanks to the 70-200 range there's no need to change lenses.  Even at f/4 you can get awesome portrait-perfect bokeh with this lens.Fast-forward to my daughter's first swimming class.  Olympic-sized pool housed in a poorly-lit building, shooting hand-held from the bleachers a couple hundred feet away, so flash is not a realistic option.  This lens nailed every single shot at 200mm - I was amazed!  No tripod, no flash, and out of 42 shots not a single one out of focus or over/under-exposed.  Once again, faithful colors and detail so sharp you can see the water droplets in mid-air.  This lens is quite light for its length - even lighter than my shorter Canon 24-70mm f/2.8 L USM lens.  I've read other reviews for this lens complaining about the weight, but I disagree.  The weight of this lens is never a problem, the only concern walking around is the length (7 inches without the hood).Sure, if I had more money, I'd love to have the f/2.8 version for those moments when you really need a large aperture and the extra weight doesn't matter.  Also, this lens does not come with a tripod ring, and it's a pretty good idea to have on on hand, especially if you're using a battery grip.  There are several cheap ones available, but I've had good luck with the extremely overpriced OEM one:Canon Tripod Mount Ring A II (W) For 70-200mm f/4L Lenses.  And if dust & moisture is a concern, only the IS models have environmental sealing, so you might want to pass this one up.  I rarely go out shooting in damp or dusty climates, and I baby my gear so I should be fine for a few years.  The bottom line: I love it!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Perfect image quality + outstanding value", "unixReviewTime": 1277683200, "reviewTime": "06 28, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A2APYRZ8SAVAIQ", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "Dan S. Tong \"avid SF reader\"", "helpful": [16, 16], "reviewText": "The Canon 70-200mm /F4 lens is probably the finest zoom lens money can buy, yet it has a bargain price (relatively speaking). Sharpness, contrast, speed of focus, low chromatic aberration, superb mechanical construction and light weight (compared to the F/2.8 versions) make it a superb choice for a must have Canon lens for serious photographers. I along with others, find this to be nearly as good as many prime lenses (fixed focal length or non-zoom) which is pretty amazing. It works great with APS-C sensor cameras (such as Rebels, 20D, 30D, 40D, 50D etc.) as well as full frame Canons (5D, 5D Mark II, etc). Sample to sample quality also appears to be very, very good -so you are less likely to get a lemon than with some other models.As some other people have pointed out with sensors smaller than \"full 35mm\" you have a crop factor. With an APS-C sensor crop factor of x1.6, you are not bringing the \"subject\" closer -there is no magnification (such as in 10x binocular), you are simply framing the \"subject\" tighter because the image is cropped. The image circle made by the lens is too large for the smaller sensors and edges fall outside the sensor area, whereas with a full frame 35mm sensor it does not.An excellent place to look at lens reviews written by more experienced photographers is fredmiranda dot com. The average rating for this lens on that forum is extremely high.If you can afford it, the IS (optically stabilized) version of this lens has some advantages, but it comes at a considerably higher price.In summary, having used this lens (for fashion and portrait work)-as well as many other lenses, with 4 different Canon cameras, I recommend it wholeheartedly.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Absolutely best telephoto Lens for the price", "unixReviewTime": 1239753600, "reviewTime": "04 15, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A3N5R78DNCMORR", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "Darlene J. Costner \"DeeJayCee\"", "helpful": [25, 27], "reviewText": "The EF70-200mm f/4L USM lens by Canon is outstanding.  Because I am 83 years old I worried about hand shake, but the lens is so fast that was never a problem.I took photos from Coit Tower in San Francisco and the photos of Alcatraz and Treasure Island are so clear you can see details on the Islands.  When enlarged the houses across the Bay in Oakland are visible.I am very pleased with this lens.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1240358400, "reviewTime": "04 22, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A6AKVZK6WV2TZ", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "DS in Boston", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "This is a great lens. I won't get into much detail because there is already so much information readily available about this lens. I do, however, want to warn potential buyers. DO NOT BUY THE LENS HOOD it already comes with one. It appears that a few of us have already made that mistake. I personally have 2 lens hoods now.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Outstanding lens!!  - - - - - Do not buy the Lens Hood", "unixReviewTime": 1171324800, "reviewTime": "02 13, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2F4ASFPWFGWJG", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "Eric Strate Photography", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "First off - let's hit the obvious thing that might concern many - the lack of IS on this lens.  At longer focal lengths with slower shutter speeds, this can be an issue on this lens..BUT with how well newer Canons are handling higher ISOs, many of the camera shake issues that you would need IS for can be addressed by cranking up ISO and shooting at a higher shutter speed...I won't lie though, IS is a nice addition to a mid-range zoom, but does it justify the cost increase to the IS version?  That will really depend on the user and their financial situation.I use this lens mainly for portraits along with my 24-70 F2.8L.  The 70-200 is a perfect complement to that zoom range, and if you really want the ideal situation, having the 70-200 F2.8 in addition to the 24-70 F2.8 is a great way to go...but, again, cost rears its ugly head when we look at the jump from the F4 to the F2.8 in the 70-200 lenses.I bought this lens because I knew I wasn't going to be using it in situations where I needed IS and because I wasn't going to need F2.8 either.  With those two considerations in mind, you can't go wrong with this lens.  It is pin-sharp throughout the entire focal range and produces wonderful bokeh for portraits.  I use this lens all the time for doing kids portraits and outdoor candids - the zoom range lets me stay out far enough that the child doesn't really know I am taking his picture (that sounds creepy - but you know what I am getting at here if you've done child's photography - the second they know the camera is pointed at them, they often stop being cute and start being awkward).  At 200mm, I get superbly sharp features in the eyes - sparkles are there, eyelash details, etc., while at the same time having wonderfully smoothed backgrounds.  The subject really 'pops' from the background.  This lens is also great for a formal portrait session if you are able to stand far enough away from the person.  So, if you are into portraits and need a mid-range zoom, or maybe just bought a new Canon 7D or Rebel XSi or XS or a used XT series and want some L-series glass at a reasonable price, you can't go wrong here.Some people consider using this with a Canon extender like a 1.4x or 2x.  That I cannot recommend if you want to preserve optimal image quality.  It will bump up the zoom, but your images will lose their L-series quality.  If you already own the extender and just want some extra reach without being too terribly worried about those details, go for it.This lens is also much, much lighter than its F2.8 counterpart.  In my review about the 24-70 F2.8 I recommend that you often go for as much aperture as possible when buying a lens - I still stand by that when the price isn't a big difference (in my review about the 24-70 I was comparing it to the 24-105 - so there wasn't a huge price difference).  If you can afford it and don't mind the extra weight, the F2.8 version of this lens is the choice, hands down.  But if you want a lighter lens and have a specific plan for this lens that won't involve a lot of low-light shooting (like using it in flash photography a lot), I don't think you can go wrong with spending around $600 for an absolutely wonderful lens.Please let me know if you have any questions about the lens, I'm happy to answer what I can.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Can't beat the price for an L-series lens - don't let non-IS scare you away", "unixReviewTime": 1256515200, "reviewTime": "10 26, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A1BH9DTTB885GC", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "FPS Girl \"Gamerchix\"", "helpful": [41, 192], "reviewText": "I was very excited to receive this lens after reading the reviews here at Amazon. However, my disappointment was big as I didn't notice better image quality compared to my beloved Canon 28-135 lens. Also, the 200mm zoom is barely better than the 135 zoom. And I'm not able to shoot any people that are standing close to me. This requires a constant change of lenses, which is a real hassle. For this price this lens doesn't deliver much satisfaction. The 28-135 lens is way better, comes with an Image Stabilizer, awesome sharp pictures and is much shorter, therefore easier to carry around. I'll return the L lens....", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Not as expected", "unixReviewTime": 1119225600, "reviewTime": "06 20, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A5UVHFQQTXFV2", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "jerryk \"Jerry\"", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "This was my first L series lens and I have to say, it was worth every penny.  The color is bright and contrast is amazing.  I have taken some shots, backlit by the sun, that you'd never get away with, using most lenses.I bought the L4 lens as opposed to the bigger 2.8, for cost and size reasons.  The L4 is small enough that you can hand-hold it for most shots.  I have taken some amazing shots of the full moon, without using a tripod.Camera shake can be a problem especially due to F4, so I just bump up the ISO on my Digital Rebel XT.It's a great lens, you will not be disappointed.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Pretty Amazing", "unixReviewTime": 1122249600, "reviewTime": "07 25, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AGRCFVEM8WDFP", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "John B. Kalla", "helpful": [25, 26], "reviewText": "If you're considering this lens, it means you are hoping theCanon EF 70-200mm f/4 L IS USM Lens for Canon Digital SLR Camerasversion of this lens and theCanon EF 70-200mm f/2.8L IS USM Telephoto Zoom Lens for Canon SLR Camerasversion of this lens are unnecessary.  Let me tell you, I was in the same position:  I really wanted the f/2.8L IS version, but didn't know if spending the extra $1K was worth it or not.  I got this lens (f/4L, non-IS) and am COMPLETELY happy with my decision!  This lens is about as light as an L lens gets, and f/4 is completely acceptable for this level of zoom, I've found.  I'm really glad I saved my money (and put it towards the amazingCanon EF 16-35mm f/2.8L II USM Ultra Wide Angle Zoom Lens).This lens isn't as white as I thought it would be.  It seems to be more of an off-white, but that doesn't bother me.  This is my first L Series lens, and I'm completely hooked!  Everything about it is well-made!  Even the surface of the lens is easy to grip and adjust, and it comes with a lens hood, as does the 16-35mm f/2.8L, so you don't have to worry about purchasing one separately.  I got a good CP filter and an ExpoDisc for the lens, and that's really all you'll need for a modern camera.  I've learned that modern digital cameras don't even really see the UV wavelengths that the UV filters used to protect your shots from, so unless you want to spend money on a little bit of lens protection by buying a UV filter, don't bother.In summary:  If you're considering this lens, get it!  Don't waste your money on the f/2.8L or IS versions unless you really need it and can afford it, in which case, you probably wouldn't be considering this lens!  Keep in mind a couple things:  The other versions of this lens will be heavier and larger, so will be more difficult to carry.  Also, a 70-200mm on a 40D or Rebel will actually be 112-320mm, as most Canon digital cameras will have a 1.6 \"crop factor\" compared to the more expensive 5D or hyper-expensive 1Ds Mark III, which are full-frame cameras.I am completely satisfied with this purchase and would make the same decision again!  If you get this lens, you won't be unhappy!PS...  Does NOT come with pictured tripod collar, but doesn't really need it IMHO.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Buy This Lens!!!", "unixReviewTime": 1212883200, "reviewTime": "06 8, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "AM8LLUCVSDOQM", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "Lehman Security", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "This is one of the sharpest zooms you can buy for the money.  And it has a constant aperture of f/4!  Not as fast as the f/2.8 but it's half the price and half the weight!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I love this lens!!", "unixReviewTime": 1140825600, "reviewTime": "02 25, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3EKNB6HM09LN8", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "Matt", "helpful": [12, 13], "reviewText": "I don't like zooms. Sure, they are covenient. And you don't need to carry alot of lenses with you. But I never liked the excessive distortions, poor sharpness, muddy contrast, and limp colors that tend to go along with the package. Yes, you can use post-processing to deal with some of this to some extent. But let's face it. Post-processing will NEVER beat an image that is great to begin with. And that brings me to this lens. Simply put, it is not like any other zoom lens I have ever owned. I can honestly say that this one is equal to some of Canon's better, consumer-grade primes (although slower). And for a zoom lens, this is somewhat of an accomplishment. Then again, this IS my first L-series lens. So maybe this is what I have been missing. Regardless, I would take this les over ANY Canon consumer zoom. Alot, for instance, has been said about this lens vs the 75-300mm. But this is how I look at it. Image stabilization is a high cost option on ANY Canon lens. Do you REALLY think that the optics on an image stablized lens that is the same price (and with a wider zoom range) as a non-image stabilized lens is going to be as good as the non-image stabilized lens? I don't think so! The fact of the matter is that there is simply no other Canon lens out there that provides this kind of combination of quality, versatility, and price. This lens is a must-have.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A zoom for those who don't like zooms.", "unixReviewTime": 1178755200, "reviewTime": "05 10, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2E2I580OO3HET", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "M. Broderick \"mikebinok\"", "helpful": [18, 20], "reviewText": "This is the sharpest and most contrasty zoom lens I own, beating out several other L zooms.  It's actually sharper than my Canon 180mm macro lens!The price is very economical for such a high-quality lens, and it is light enough to be reasonably portable, though the size and color will still make non-photographers gasp.  It is the best bang-for-buck among any of the L lenses (the non-L 50/1.8 prime is the most bang-for-buck in the entire Canon line).Disadvantages are the attention-attracting size and color mentioned above, and the lack of image stabilization.  If you're shooting from a tripod, the lack of stabilization won't hurt you, but many people will want to use this handheld, and they won't get full advantage of the lens doing that.The biggest disadvantage of the lens is the annoying filter size--One of only a couple of Canon lenses to use this size.If you want to shoot it from a tripod, this lens can't be beat.  For those who won't use a tripod, I recommend the 70-300 IS lens instead (not the superexpensive \"DO\" one, but the one that costs around $500).  This will give a little more focal length, but it will have image stabilization, which is needed desperately at 200mm in all but bright harsh light.  Of course, that lens doesn't produce as nice-quality images as this lens.  You give some things up for the convenience of not using a tripod!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Incredible value with high image quality", "unixReviewTime": 1178841600, "reviewTime": "05 11, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A27M5YYBSOJ814", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "M. Domingo", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "I was at the local camera shop when I saw this lens being put in the \"used\" case. I asked to see it and noticed the L designation, so I checked it out on my 10D. I immediately noticed the sharpness of the photos and speed with which it focused, and traded in my less-than-stellar Canon 28-135 and $200 to snap up this lens. I especially like the fact that the lens is fully enclosed and rugged, for those times when I shoot out in the desert. I've been using this lens for about six months now, mainly for naturally lit portraits.It is a big, heavy lens, so don't think you'll be too discrete when shooting with it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Big, but sharp", "unixReviewTime": 1105488000, "reviewTime": "01 12, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1EURH2KK57PGL", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "Michaeleen R. Munrow \"zefyr\"", "helpful": [18, 18], "reviewText": "Let me start off by saying that I've owned the 70-300 IS DO lens that canon makes.  It was a small and relatively light lens but it was soft and not quick enough to capture the action shots I was taking.  Disappointed I sold it and have been settling for my 100-300mm lens (also soft).Finally I decided to buy another 'long lens'.  In the past, I've also owned the 200mm f/2.8 and the 300mm lens...neither had IS.  The 300mm was way heavy so I was really hesitant to get another L-lens because of that....until I found the 70-200mm f/4.  For the price you can't go wrong.  I don't have lug around lots of lenses and this one is sharp throughout the enitre range.Yes it is a little slow in low light and of course IS would be great.  But to get those you pay a price--not only in dollars and cents but also in heft.  The f/4 is quite comfortable to hold.  I don't feel like my wrist is going to break while holding it to shoot.  Plus it fits nicely in my little camera bag.  Right now I want to 'go light' and only have 2 lenses-- the 28-135 IS and this one.  I couldn't be happier!You get what you pay for and this lens really is worth every penny!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "You get what you pay for!", "unixReviewTime": 1150675200, "reviewTime": "06 19, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3DRT9IRH63ZHB", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "Michael Morgan", "helpful": [64, 66], "reviewText": "What more can you ask for?  Well, IS would be nice for those low-light 200mm hand-held shots.  Otherwise, this lens is nearly perfect in build quality and most importantly, image quality.  It is ultra sharp with eye-popping contrast and accurate colors wide open at f4.0 over the whole range from 70-200mm.  Stopping down to 5.6 gives only a very slight improvement, just in contrast.  I tested it against the new non-L Canon 70-300 IS lens and found the images of the f/4L to have noticibly higher sharpness and contrast at the same f-stops.  It also  beat the pants off the sharpness and contrast of the 3-times as heavy and 3-times as costly 70-200 f2.8 IS at the same f-stops (4 to 4, 5.6 to 5.6, etc) for all but 200mm, where the IS had virtually the same (but not better) image quality.  It also works wonders using the 1.4X teleconverter, becoming a super-sharp 98-280mm f5.6 zoom with fast and accurate autofocus.  This lens seems to get a very high percentage of rave reviews from owners and for a reason.  You get the best quality images and build with the most portability (low weight) for the lowest cost.  Yes, you can spend twice as much for the f2.8 non-IS version and haul 3-times the weight just to get one-stop.  Or, you can spend 3-times as much and haul the 2.8 IS for a Gold's Gym workout to get low-light performance (but maybe lower image quality from my experience).  There are many choices, but this lens seems to be a winner and a relative bargain for many reasons.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "High-Quality, Light-Weight and Produces Outstanding Images", "unixReviewTime": 1133136000, "reviewTime": "11 28, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AEUW6VD9XCVWD", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "Michi", "helpful": [50, 50], "reviewText": "I have always had some kind of 70-200 lens since I started taking pictures many years ago.  Once I went digital, I realized that my old zoom lenses really were not that good.  I bought this lens and compared it to what I had, and a friend's Canon 75-300mm.  The difference is amazing.  The 70-200L is tack sharp.  The other lenses look as if they have problems or didn't focus correctly.  This lens also focuses quite fast, and when I use it with my newly aquired Canon 1.4X extender, there is hardly any quality degradation.  On my Rebel XT with the 1.6 factor and the extender, I end up having a 450mm tele which still delivers incredible photos.  I wish I had the 2.8 version but can't afford it.  If you're in this budget range, you can't go wrong with this lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Fantastic Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1141603200, "reviewTime": "03 6, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3675MXCVW2MHQ", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "Miguel G.", "helpful": [43, 43], "reviewText": "This was the first L-series lens that I ever bought. All I can say is \"spectacular\". At first I was looking at the 70-200 f/2.8 but the sheer weight and price turned me off. Additionally, I was told that I wouldn't be able to get good bokeh at f/4 -- not true as it turns out (look at the sample I've posted of a Buddha statue). I own a 24-70L f/2.8, and 50MM F/1.4 among others and this is probably the best buy for the money. Teamed up with a good teleconverter (like the Kenko Pro 1.4x or 2x) you also get a decent 280 or 400 lens. If you have a moderate (but limited) budget go for this lens and the other two that I listed -- they cover all the ranges and crank out world class pictures.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Hands-down best buy in the \"L\" class category!", "unixReviewTime": 1138838400, "reviewTime": "02 2, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2G2QNKDL1Y6AC", "asin": "B000053HH5", "reviewerName": "mister_t42", "helpful": [329, 344], "reviewText": "In my opinion, this Canon lens provides the best value in Canon's entire line up of &quot;L&quot; glass (lenses).  If you have never used an L lens before, this will open your eyes to what you have been missing.  Very fast focusing, very sharp images, very little chromatic abberation, and consistent quality through the entire zoom and aperature range.One note; with a widest aperature of f/4 and a long focal length, you will not be able to take indoor photos without excellent lighting or a flash.  I've tried to take photos of ice hockey, where the rinks are notoriously poorly lit, and had very little success.  Even with a tripod it is a challenge to maintain a fast enough shutter speed to freeze the action of a kids game (yes, even with ISO at 800).  But in good lighting or outdoors in the daytime, this lense rocks.Great sports photos.  Great nature photos.  This lense is extremely versatile.  I have even used it with flash indoors for portrait photography.There is not too much to mention on the negative side.  Its size and color do make it stand out a bit in public, and people may thing you are a professional photographer.  I've also noted that the depth-of-field with a wide open aperature, especially at f4, is very narrow.  As long as you've been careful to focus on your subject, the background will be blurry.  But focus on something other than your subject and you may find your subject to be blurry.All in all, this is one great lens that will let you take very sharp photos.  And it is a bargain price compared to its f/2.8 and f/2.8IS sibliings.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Incredible quality at a reasonable price", "unixReviewTime": 1077235200, "reviewTime": "02 20, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A1A4NH8B337AQG", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "Albert G. Smith Jr.", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "The quality of the 50mm f/1.8 AF lens is well known.  It is probably the best 100 Dollars that you can spend when you factor in cost to performance.  This review is more about the process of the interface between Amazon and Adorama.I was a bit nervous about the fact that while I was ordering this lens from Amazon, a company that I had good history with, it was basically handed off to Adorama to be processed and filled.  Within minutes of placing my order, I received an e-mail from Amazon notifying me that my order was now in the hands of Adorama.  I expected a delay or a hassle, and was having second thoughts, but figured at just over a hundred bucks, I'd ride it out and see what happens.Boy was I wrong!  I placed my order on Thursday, and on Saturday, the box from Adorama was in my mailbox, and this was from standard shipping, not express.  I opened it and it was perfect.  My lens was brand new, had a US warrantee and had all of the paperwork.As expected, the lens operates and performs perfectly, but the process was so smooth and fast that I wanted to let others know to trust Amazon when it works with other suppliers.  The Amazon / Adorama teaming was very good in my experience on this purchase.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "the fastest time from ordering to receiving ever...", "unixReviewTime": 1203984000, "reviewTime": "02 26, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A3LMS2UO0ESHX5", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "Albert J. Valentino", "helpful": [276, 292], "reviewText": "This lens is probably the sharpest lens that Nikon makes--see lens reviews/specs at [...] I use this lens for low light situations outdoors and indoors so I don't need a flash. also, small dept-of-field. Using this at f/2.0 I will get at least four-six times as much light (which means four-six times faster shutter speed) as my zoom at around f/4.8 and also have a sharper image. For $99.00 this f/1.8 is a steal and a much better buy than the f/1.4 which is almost as sharp a lens and costs about $250.00--it's a no brainer.I use this with my Nikon D70--remember, with a digital SLR this is equivalent to a 75mm lens for film which it a pretty good portrait lens.Just buy it--for the price you can't go wrong.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Dollar for dollar the best buy in a bright sharp lens", "unixReviewTime": 1101600000, "reviewTime": "11 28, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A2NOIWPJDD7WIQ", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I'm not really a big fan of portrait pics or standard non-zooming lens, but that all changed when I bought it.  For $110+, I got this lens in less than 2 days and I was impressed by the FAST autofocus on my Nikon D50.  Great aperture range and nice 'bokeh' effect around F/1.8 and very impressive depth of field at F/22.  The 'bokeh' effect can be a tad harsh at F/1.8 but if you tinker around with the f-stop, this lens can really make for some beautiful portrait/head shots with smooth 'bokeh' as backdrop.  It does feel cheap and it feels like it'll break after 1 accidental drop, but other than that, it's worth the buy. For a non-ED lens, it definitely produces some really amazing pictures.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "FAST lens, sharp images, don't let the price fool you", "unixReviewTime": 1153094400, "reviewTime": "07 17, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1DJ98K7JBYOO7", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "Bichuf", "helpful": [13, 16], "reviewText": "If you buy this for a Nikon D40, please read the title AGAIN.  If you quick read the other reviews, you may not get to read that some mention the fact that this lens WILL NOT AUTOFOCUS WITH A NIKON D40.  If you don't care about this, you'll find this little lens great.  The pictures are crisp and clear, full of light.  Great addition to your lens collection.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Warning - Will NOT AUTOFOCUS with D40!", "unixReviewTime": 1173657600, "reviewTime": "03 12, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A212MDP6K4VJS5", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "Bill Stockstill \"&#34;Bill&#34;\"", "helpful": [26, 27], "reviewText": "The problem: My daughter's recital pratice came out horrible with my f2.8 zoom lens. Too much motion, and no flash was going to be allowed on the big day. After some fast research I came up with this inexpensive solution. On my D50 this is a 75mm lens. I got front row seating, set the ISO to 1600 and used shutter priority set at 1/200. The results were fantasitic!!! This excellent little lens, that looks so puny on my D50 offers sharpness (some say Nikon's sharpest lens!) and speed at a small price. Go get one and have fun.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Best Bargin in Photography?", "unixReviewTime": 1151020800, "reviewTime": "06 23, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1QDKO8ZFJZ509", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "Capt RB", "helpful": [28, 29], "reviewText": "For 99 dollars what can you say to a 50mm lens that is fast and may be as sharp or even sharper than other Nikon lenses costing over 1000.00??? I also have the 18-70 and 28-200, but when I photograph my son I often use the 50mm 1.8 for it's wonderful detail, color and focus. If you're angry about spending 1500 dollars on a Nikon lens, just pretend that this was a 800.00 lens you got for 100 bucks and subtract the difference! That's how good this lens is. For the price it's a miracle and we don't get many price-miracles from Nikon now do we?", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Bargain that is Best", "unixReviewTime": 1115942400, "reviewTime": "05 13, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1NNMOD9H36Q8E", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "DigitalMan \"DMAN\"", "helpful": [11, 20], "reviewText": "Alot of different opinions in the review forums here on Amazon.  I ended up sending this one back and buying the 1.4 as it just seemed more substantial in my hand.  I know that is a soft reason to pay twice the price but I love my 1.4.  For a more budget conscious person this is still a good lens though.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "I returned it and bought the f/1,4", "unixReviewTime": 1210550400, "reviewTime": "05 12, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A15QYHQH80W30L", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "Edgar H. Tan, MD \"The Healer\"", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "I had a dilemna choosing between the 50mm f1.4 vs f1.8 and after reading all reviews from amazon and other internet sites I came to the conclusion that perhaps the f1.8 is a superior all around lens and true enough this lens is sharp, bright, fast and just simply awesome. Ken Rockwell talked about lesser distortion for this lens vs the f1.4 that really tipped me to decide on this one. This is a good all around lens and a great bargain too.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Nice!", "unixReviewTime": 1185408000, "reviewTime": "07 26, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1SHHQSPOWR00F", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "E \"--\"", "helpful": [25, 41], "reviewText": "Do not buy this lens as your primary lens if you own a Nikon DSLR (D50, D70, D80).  The focal length (50mm) makes it a telephoto lens (75mm) on a digital camera.  Imagine trying to take photographs of your family indoors using a telephoto lens.  You will only be able to capture the head and part of the torso of one person.  Instead, buy the 28mm f/2.8 or the 35mm f/2.0 focal length lenses (stay away from the Sigma 30mm).With that said, this lens is awesome for low light indoors and outdoor night work.  I bought this lens for \"available light\" photography, meaning indoors or from street lamps outdoors at night.  I am very pleased with the results.  It is quite a bit sharper than the 18 - 55  or 55 - 200 Nikon zooms that I own.  To me, sharpness is worth doing without a zoom.  This would be on my camera 24x7 if the focal length was 28mm, not 50mm.  So, if you need a lens for available-light use in portrait or some telephoto work (not as a prime on a digital camera), this lens is perfection.Please note that my three star rating is based solely on the quality of the lens, not on my review of the application above. The resulting sharpness of the photos is very good, but not nearly on a par with my Yashica-brand Zeiss lenses (which had a similar price point in 1980, adjusted for inflation), and the build is plastic made in China. Therefore, the quality of what you get compared with the price you paid is about a three or a four (very good), not a five (the best).Nikon 35mm f/2D AF Wide-Angle Nikkor Lens for Nikon 35mm and Digital SLR CamerasSigma 30mm f/1.4 EX DC HSM Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "AN AWESOME LENS - BUT DON'T BUY IT AS YOUR MAIN", "unixReviewTime": 1190764800, "reviewTime": "09 26, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3E68EBGXTWDNP", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "E. K. Arnold \"amazon hunter\"", "helpful": [45, 46], "reviewText": "For around $100, it's impossible to beat this prime lens. it's a nikkor AF with a five-year warranty. it's cute. it's lightweight enough to carry in your pocket. its sharper than a ginsu. it takes great portrait and low-light photos. at 1.8, it's one of the quickest lenses out there--fire off a burst in continuous-shooting mode and you can get a \"freeze-frame\" effect for animation-like sequences that capture motion as slight as someone blinking. best of all, it makes your dslr fairly inobtrusive, so you can use it for candid, no-flash shots in any lighting condition without rousing the ire of the photo police. it's perfect for tight shots where you don't have a lot of room to maneuver, but it can do landscapes as well if you're far enough away. the 50mm focal length isn't exactly wide-angle, but you can spring several hundreds more for a 24 or 28 prime for that, or get a 90, 100, or 105 if you want to get in even tighter or take shots from farther away. no macro either, but did you really expect a macro for $100? plus it has good depth of field and nice bokeh. great addition to any nikon d-series kit, and more versatile than you might think. it's hard to find any real faults with it for the $ -- it's cheaper than the 50mm sigma prime, which does have macro, but for a \"real\" macro lens you're probably looking at $400-$500 anyway. if you're thinking of the tamron 90, you could get this plus the tokina 100 or sigma 105 for the same price. consider this lens one of the benefits of going nikon -- olympus, for example, offers a 50mm 2.0 macro for the E-series, but it's $500. few lenses rate as a must-have for nikon users, but this is one of them.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "razor sharp prime", "unixReviewTime": 1169078400, "reviewTime": "01 18, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AESPLVBQJCNC7", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "E. Kim", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "I have now used this lens daily with a Nikon D90 for the past 1 week, shooting approximately 2000 photos with it.It is a great lens and amazing for the price, but one should be very careful in understanding its limitations and the difference between it and the much more expensive Nikkor 50mm f/1.4.PROS:1. Very inexpensive (costing 1/3 of the Nikkor 50mm f/1.4)2. Sharp if stopped down to f/43. Ideal to shoot indoors if the space is not small as it is effectively a 75 mm lens with the DX sensor cropping factor of 1.54. Very low barrel distortionCONS:1. It would be disappointing if one purchased this thinking that it could be used for excellent low-light photography when shot wide open at f/1.82. At f/1.8, there is significant softness in the image even if it is focused properly3. At f/1.8, the depth of field is so narrow, that it requires significant effort to make sure you are properly focused.  Otherwise you will have 2 sources of \"softness\", one from the out-of-focus regions, and the other being the inherent softness that's present for apertures greater than f/44. To shoot with optimal sharpness, it needs to be stopped down to f/4 (at f/2.8 the image is still very good, however)This is a great lens as long as one does not expect that it will deliver tack sharp results when used wide open under f/4.  This in itself will disappoint those who expect to shoot in very low light as f/4 can be achieved with a zoom.The much more expensive Nikkor 50mm f/1.4 is sharp from f/2 but equals the 50mm f/1.8 lens at around f/4.It still one of my favorite lenses as it delivers great image quality with very low distortion when used at f/4 or smaller apertures.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great lens if you know its limitations of not being sharp until f/4 and that is not really for very low-light photography", "unixReviewTime": 1222473600, "reviewTime": "09 27, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A2BN67MBQQ23G1", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "FredM", "helpful": [18, 18], "reviewText": "This lens is amazingly versatile.  At f/1.8 it's fast enough for available light shooting, and is sharp enough wide open to use at that aperture. Its focal length is perfect for portraits on a camera with a 1.5X crop factor. It's small enough to make a compact camera when weight and size is important. With an extension tube or reversing ring, this Nikkor makes a great close-up lens, too.  Yet, this lens costs in the $100 range.  It's a bargain that performs superbly.  Every Nikon photographer should own one.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The most versatile lens you'll own.", "unixReviewTime": 1155686400, "reviewTime": "08 16, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A5JLAU2ARJ0BO", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "Gadgester \"No Time, No Money\"", "helpful": [18, 21], "reviewText": "This is a nice, fast 50mm lens, great for portraits.  High-quality construction and excellent optics, all for a great price.But digital SLR shooters should be aware.  Most Nikon d-SLRs have a focal length factor, usually of 1.5x, so this lens is effectively a 75mm lens on the likes of D70, etc.  It's still good for portraits -- in fact, a little telephoto helps portrait shooting -- but if you want a totally normal lens (45mm-55mm), this is not the one to get.  Try something with a marked focal length of 35mm or so, for an effective focal length in the normal range.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great lens, but d-SLR shooters beware", "unixReviewTime": 1106784000, "reviewTime": "01 27, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2TZYC3TD9RIGQ", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "Glenn Carpenter", "helpful": [511, 554], "reviewText": "I was surprised to find, after reading so many positive reviews of this lens, that the copy I received was so fuzzy at wide-open apertures that I could see it on UN-MAGNIFIED images right on my D90's 3\" screen.All lenses lose sharpness at wide apertures: this is a matter of basic physics and is the result of something called spherical aberration.  Some are much better than others though, thanks to better optical designs that more effectively correct for this tendency.  The 35mm f/2, for example, is very good wide open; the 85mm f/1.8 is decent (and very appropriate for portrait use).  My copy of the 50mm f/1.8 lost both sharpness and significant contrast as f/1.8 was approached.  I would quantify it as follows:f/1.8: very fuzzy (well beyond \"soft\"), reduced contrast, almost un-useablef/2.8: still quite soft, much improved contrastf/4: slightly soft, good contrastf/5.6: sharp, good contrastf/8: very sharp, good contrastThese results were repeatable on my sample and held true regardless of shutter speed and technique.Notes:- The advantage of a lens like this is the ability to use wide apertures.  A good portrait lens need not be particularly sharp, but wider than f/4 my copy of this lens was soft enough that I would use it for nothing other than casual people-photography.  It would not suffice for critical night or low-light photography, or for general photography where sharpness might be desired.  For photos of people it was fine at f/2.8, but below that it lost so much sharpness, and enough contrast, that photos of almost any subject looked dull.- The lens seems like an obvious choice as a first prime due to its price and the many excellent reviews of it here on Amazon and elsewhere.  Even besides the sharpness degradation wide open, I found it less useful than I'd hoped.  On a crop-size DSLR, it is a short telephoto lens, and it just hasn't turned out to be a focal length I use all that much.  I would urge potential buyers to consider the 35mm f/2 before this lens as it gives the traditional \"normal\" perspective on a Nikon crop-size DSLR.- Some reviewers like this lens for portrait use, but again, I found it poorly suited for this.  The 85mm f/1.8 is admittedly more expensive, but it has far more potential as a portrait lens.- This is not a high-contrast lens.  It does not use any ED glass elements, which seem to be quite magical at improving contrast, and color rendition is noticeably less vibrant than such lenses.  For some types of photography this can actually be desirable, but for general or landscape photography I prefer the higher-contrast lenses.- My sample of this lens may have been below average, considering that most reviews of the lens are very positive.  However, if you read carefully, most thorough reviews do mention that it loses contrast and acuity at wide apertures.  Ken Rockwell, for example, has reviewed the lens very positively, but when it came time to suggest lenses sharp enough to be used on the new D3x, with its ultra-high-resolution sensor, he gave the similar-performing (possibly better) f/1.4 \"G\" version only three stars.  I would submit that it is really not quite as sharp a lens as its reputation would lead one to believe.  My excellent 16-85mm DX zoom, for example (the only lens I've given a five-star review as of this time), is far sharper than this lens up to around f/8 and hold an edge even there and beyond.- Nikon has recently announced a new 35mm f/1.8 DX lens.  I've ordered one and will probably post a review once I've had a chance to use it.  I would suggest that it is very likely to be a better choice than this lens for almost any DX user.  Being designed for the smaller DX sensor, it will probably be optimized for high linear resolutions within the smaller DX image circle.  It is also a fairly inexpensive lens, not much more than this lens now that the 50mm has crept up a bit in price.- Even if my sample is significantly poorer than average, my experience indicates that it would be a good idea to thoroughly test a copy of this lens before committing to buy it.  Be sure to compare images at wide apertures to those made at f/8, where sharpness should be very good, and determine for yourself whether the loss of sharpness and contrast is acceptable for your purposes.- Focus is plenty quick and accurate, at least on my sample.  No problems at all in this regard (and none expected).", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Possibly a bad sample?", "unixReviewTime": 1235088000, "reviewTime": "02 20, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A2MCZOZ2X2ZQYK", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "hobbyist-2006", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "One of the reviewers pointed out (Richard \"the Lion Heart\") that this lens is difficult to focus manually using the D40. I agree. I also have a D40 and used this lens on it. The focus action is stiffer. Focus travel is short, too. As a consequence the electronic rangefinder inside the D40 (focus dot indicator) flickers when focusing by hand. Purely manual focus (MF) Nikon lens are much easier to focus on the D40. For example, the MF 35-105mm Nikkor smoothly gets in and out of focus without flickering the focus indicator, as does the 55mm f/2.8 micro Nikkor. Both MF lenses have ample focus travel and will nail the focus indicator without difficulty.I shot an event inside the church using ISO 400 film with this lens. Scenes were correctly exposed with only the builtin flash of my Nikon F75 to fill-in nearby subjects. Set at f2, my photos were sharp and showed correct balance of flash and ambient light including candles and chandelier lights. Without the wide aperture of this lens, I would have to resort to a bigger flash gun (inconvenient) higher ISO film (hard to find) or shutter speed slower than 1/60.One other thing I observed with this lens is that it is quite tighter than other lenses to mount on the camera. I am not sure if its just my lens. I read somewhere that someone also noticed this. If you have the same observation, just be careful not to press the lens body too much in mounting it to the camera.As you can see from the picture, the lens body is rather colorful and these markings carry significance. You may not see the same marks on G model lenses which come as the usual kit lens. The depth-of-field scale, distance scale, and aperture readout scale that are written on the 50mm f/1.8 lens body gives important information for those who are new to photography. For this reason I highly recommend this lens instead of a zoom lens lacking this information, if you have a choice.This is a wonderful lens for both Nikon film and digital SLRs. I used it regularly on my film camera where I fully appreciate its value. But bear in mind that it may be a challenge for you to use it on the D40/x, which of course, is neither the camera's nor the lens' fault.Although many people stay away from the 50mm focal length for its limited angle, I find it to be a very good lens for just about any scene. I always believe that a simple lens like this has way more potential as a photographic instrument to take good photographs than most people (including me) have talents to take good pictures. I dont think that in my lifetime I will ever exhaust the possibilities that this simple lens can offer!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "One of the better lenses for film and digital Nikon SLRs", "unixReviewTime": 1196208000, "reviewTime": "11 28, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1Z5CYJ5E9O9WM", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "JABAG \"Just Another Bay Area Geek\"", "helpful": [12, 18], "reviewText": "This lens draws raves from its fans, and while it isn't that good, it is still a good bang for the buck.  50mm for DX size sensors is an odd focal length.  It isn't really a wide angle, but it is too short to be a tele.  It is a little long for me as a \"normal\" lens.  I use it mostly for low/available light shots indoors, but I find that I wish the field of view were a little larger.This is a lens that most Nikon DSLR owners have in their bag, and for good reason.  It is well made, reasonably priced, and relatively small.  Just don't make it your only lens.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Overrated but still a good buy", "unixReviewTime": 1178928000, "reviewTime": "05 12, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1DB2EVH0HGHBP", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "Jehan Ghouse", "helpful": [11, 12], "reviewText": "[...].  My primary purpose for this lens was low light exposures where I wanted to use it wide open at f/1.8.  Unfortunately, at f/1.8, the images are soft.  At f/4 and smaller however, the images are crisp and very contrasty.  Closer to f/22, softness creeps in again.  At first I thought I too may have had a bad sample.  But a second copy that I tried gave the same results.  If you intend to use this lens between f/4 and f/19, it will produce excellent images.  However, if you  are looking to use it for high speed photography, shallow DoF or low light photography (i.e. wide open aperture), this lens may not be for you. I suppose that is to be expected for a lens that only costs $130!2-28-2010 Update:  I've been using the 50mm f/1.4D since I returned this lens and performance at f/1.4 is superior.  I definitely do not recommend the f/1.8 lens if your intention is to use it for low light shooting at f/1.8.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Good lens, but unusable at f/1.8", "unixReviewTime": 1259280000, "reviewTime": "11 27, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "AKT8TGIT6VVZ5", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "John Kwok", "helpful": [52, 53], "reviewText": "Personally I would opt for the 50mm f1.4 Nikkor lens, but if you are tight on a budget and don't need the additional speed, then this 50mm lens would be ideal for you. I have owned several 50mm f2 and f1.8 Nikkor lenses which were all very capable performers and this autofocus version of a Nikon Series E 50mm f1.8 lens is no exception. It is without question still sharper and contrastier than a zoom lens in the equivalent 50mm focal length, since it has substantially less barrel distortion than any zoom lens. Even if you own a zoom lens covering the 50mm focal length, I would still recommend acquiring either this lens or the 50mm f1.4 lens since either would be fine normal perspective portrait lenses for photographying friends and family. If you work primarily in digital photography, then this lens wouldn't be a normal perspective lens in the 45mm to 55mm range, but instead, offer a slight telephoto perspective at a 75mm focal length; this would yield more of a head and shoulders portrait and may be more pleasing to the eye than the normal perspective taken with a 50mm lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent inexpensive 50mm lens from Nikon", "unixReviewTime": 1122681600, "reviewTime": "07 30, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2Y08KFEHZO280", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "Kyle D. Gendron", "helpful": [16, 16], "reviewText": "If you have a Nikon SLR, film or digital, then this is a must have lens. Don't let the small price tag fool you. This lens takes sharp photos.I have a D50 and this lens is on the camera just as much as the 18-70mm zoom lens.With the digital crop factor this lens is the equilivent to a 75mm lens on a film camera. Just about perfect for portraits.  I love using this lens when taking pictures of the kids. I turn off the flash and use natural light. I may have to bump the ISO to 800 or 1600, but it is worth it. The pictures are outstanding. 100 dollars well spent.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Can't Go Wrong with this one.", "unixReviewTime": 1152489600, "reviewTime": "07 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1AJA1T3GWKMGZ", "asin": "B00005LEN4", "reviewerName": "Leicanthrope", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "An absolutely tack sharp lens, very much professional quality, for a tiny fraction of the price of professional glass.  It does have it's dangers though.  Nikon doesn't make any other comparable lenses that are this cheap.  Once you use the 50/1.8, you'll find yourself doubting the quality of the rest of your non-pro lenses, and eyeballing lenses that you'll have to take out a second mortgage to pay for.It's obvious that all of the money went into the glass, as the actual construction of the lens leaves a lot to be desired.  Entirely too much plastic.Out of focus rendition (\"bokeh\") is decent, but nothing to write home about.  A bit on the harsh side, but not distractingly so.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Hard to get more bang for your buck...", "unixReviewTime": 1164067200, "reviewTime": "11 21, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A30GT91JHIBUOM", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer \"MovieFreak\"", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "I purchased this after reading the reviews for a number of USB hubs (really!)  I can't use my iPod and 2.5\" WD Passport at the same time as my USB mouse & flash drive on the notebook (just two USB ports, both 2.0), and so the purchase...1. Long USB cable works nicely for desktops, but do I want to carry that around?  It might be useful for notebooks with recessed USB ports, but read on....2. My external DVD writer, 3.5\" external HDD work fine w/o the hub powered because they have their own power adapters.  My self-powered WD Passport 2.5\" HDD and iPod need the power cable to be plugged in.  My USB1.1 Lexar flash drive works without the hub powered (mobile for the low-power-draw devices).  So: great for desktops, but not particularly mobile.3. Tested my USB2.0 3.5\" external HDD plugged in parallel to the USB1.1 flash drive - both work as expected.  USB2.0 - 184 MB in ~1/2 minute, USB1.1 - 4 MB in less time.  As another reviewer pointed out, probably depends on the device.  This test was without the hub powered (note: not the USB-powered WD 2.5\" HDD).4. The two-pin power adapter is as thick as a three pin plug, but wide.  So it will work fine when the flat pins are parallel to the length of the strip, but the adapter will block the adjoining sockets with the flat pins perpendicular to the strip.  I have both types of power strips!Bottom line: it works great with my desktop and my notebook when docked.  However, my search for a mobile USB hub continues.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great for desktops.... less so for notebooks", "unixReviewTime": 1117929600, "reviewTime": "06 5, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2I6562SSXAD6", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "a_rabbit", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "I have a laptop without PS/2 ports so I needed a USB hub to connect an external keyboard (MS Natural Elite) and mouse (MS Optical Wheel Mouse).  Unfortunately, the mouse freezes for a complete second during high CPU times (about every ~1-10 minutes).  I bought a much smaller SIIG USB 2.0 mobile/notebook hub (not the &quot;mini hub&quot; one which is bigger), and it doesn't have these problems.  With the SIIG, you don't have to use the AC adapter, unlike the D-Link.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "USB mouse periodically freezes", "unixReviewTime": 1045872000, "reviewTime": "02 22, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "ANRWMBD04EI86", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "Arjuna", "helpful": [37, 38], "reviewText": "I bought this hub this past Monday and installed it right away. I have 7 USB 3.0 external Hard drives and only 4 USB 3.0 ports in my PC (PCI Add-on cards with 2-ports each). I tested transfer speeds every which way I could to see if there were performance differences between having the source and destination drives on one card vs. another, or between drives connected to this hub. The results were spectacular. USB 3.0 drive to USB 3.0 drive transfer speeds are phenomenal.Using a RAID0 (Striped) source drive (10,000 RPM WD Raptors) with a consistent throughput of 160MB/Second I copied 5.0 GB to the following drives:- Standard 5400 RPM SATA (SATA 3GB/Second interface) - Transfer Speed 55MB/Second- Standard 7200 RPM SATA (SATA 3GB/Second interface) - Transfer Speed 77MB/Second- USB 2.0 5400 RPM external drives - Transfer speed 34MB/Second- USB 3.0 5400 RPM external drives - Transfer speed 72MB/SecondUsing a USB 3.0 External Hard Drive 5400 RPM as the source copying to another identical drive on the same USB 3.0 HUB I copied 5 GB of data with a transfer speed of 80MB/Second. It makes no difference whether the drives are on separate controllers, plugged into a USB 3.0 port by itself, or whether the drives are both plugged into the hub. If you are like me and move tons of data around you will find USB 3.0 MUCH faster the earlier technologies including even the latest Firewire iterations.USB 3.0 speed of 4.8Gb/Second is a huge boost. At ten (10) times the speed of USB 2.0, the external hard drive bottleneck has moved from the connection speed to the speed limits of the hard drive itself.PROS:- Fast, even with 4 drives attached.- 5 Volt, 5 Amp Switched Power Supply should provide ample power to devices that need it, while not being an electricity hog.CONS:- Only 3 ports gained (literature and packaging says it \"provides four additional USB 3.00 ports for your PC\").- Reliability is in question.- A bit expensiveNOTE: The DUB-1340 4-Port USB 3.0 hub worked great for 3 days. Today on the fourth day it is beginning to drop drives. For a while earlier I could not get the PC (Running Win 7 x64) to recognize either the hub or the drives connected to it. Right now it only shows two drives attached when in fact all four should be there. I just rebooted the hub again and they are all back. I will surely go exchange it tomorrow for a new one.UPDATE: January 2, 2012I exchanged the hub and the replacement works great. I installed a second one and they have both worked reliably for a couple months now.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Very fast! Although mine isa bit flaky", "unixReviewTime": 1319673600, "reviewTime": "10 27, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A3I1BJIFFM4S21", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "Atomicwasteland", "helpful": [19, 21], "reviewText": "I purchased this product about 6 months ago when I was fed up with all the cables I had to string around just to connect 7 USB cables to my computer.  I had to use three different 4-port USB devices and daisy-chain them together (which caused me to waste two ports just in connecting them to each other!)This product, however, did the same amount of work as my three 4-port USB hubs for 1/3 the cost, 1/3 the hassle, and 1/3 the power cables taking up socket space on my power strip.Not only is this 7-port d-link more efficient, there is one other key difference.  The ports are vertical instead of horizontal.  This means that it takes a lot less space than an equivalent 7-port horizontal hub.  Why is this? Because it is more efficient use of space.  As a result, you can ALWAYS fit your USB microdrive in the usb slot without crowing out a neighboring slot.  Sometimes the USB keychain drives are too wide, and it is difficult to insert one into a hub without pressing into the USB item next to it.  With the slots being vertical, instead of horizontal, this is never a problem.One more thing, the power adapter is pretty small, and it is a \"sideways\" adapter.  This means that with optimal placement you might just be able to place it where you only cover one wall socket on your power outlet/power strip.I am very happy with this purchase, and I would recommend it to anyone who needs more than one four port USB hub.  I'll never go back to the 4-porter again...", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Really Great Piece of Hardware", "unixReviewTime": 1166918400, "reviewTime": "12 24, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2SW560X584UEF", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "Barbara B.", "helpful": [27, 32], "reviewText": "This is a device you either love or hate. You love it if you plug it in and everything works fine. You hate it if your devices won't work with it.I'm in the latter category. I decided to replace my old 4-port hub with this 7-port device even though I haven't (yet) added more USB devices. I had my printer, scanner, card reader and PDA cradle plugged into my old HUB and everything was working smoothly. I succumbed to the temptation of getting a high-speed HUB since my newer devices are high-speed and I got tired of the \"this device can perform faster\" message from windows.I installed this Hub and the printer and scanner both registered and installed perfectly. I plugged in my card reader and the computer wouldn't recognize it. I unplugged it and reinstalled the software. Still couldn't get it to recognize it. I plugged it directly into my computer and it ran fine.Same thing happened with my mobile device.After working for several hours to get everything to work, including reinstalling the software, I set everything up on my old hub and again everything ran fine.I've been working with computers since the old CPM days (including DOS!) and I'm not such a rookie that I can't plug in a new USB Hub. I'm returning this unit for a refund.A few other frustrating things I encountered:1) The hard plastic packaging was extremely hard to get into. I ended up practically tearing it to shreds.2) There is minimal documentation. An insert says to refer to the owners manual on the enclosed CD -- but there IS NO CD!3) The Quick Installation Guide says nothing about needing to reinstall device software. Only when you go on the D-Link support website do you read this information.4) As others have noted, if you are using even a single USB 1.1 device, there is a chance that ALL devices connected to the hub (even high speed ones) will work at USB 1.1 speed. So much for \"backwards compatible.\"", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Couldn't get two devices to work. Gave up on it!", "unixReviewTime": 1194998400, "reviewTime": "11 14, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3MHBU3D85L4KP", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "Bargin Hunter \"lexusdcs\"", "helpful": [15, 17], "reviewText": "I picked up this baby a few months ago because the unit I had made by another manufacturer was malfunctioning.  Sometimes for no reason I would lose my ability to print or my mouse would stop functioning and I would have to pull the cable and reconnect it to restore functionality. I decided to dump that dog and I invested in this unit and am totally happy. You simply take it out of the box, hook up the wiring, power it up and presto your in business. One nice feature is that the LEDs are large and bright so you can see them in even in direct sunlight.  You can get cheaper ports but I think this one is a quality product. Thank goodness some things in life are simple!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "THIS IS WHAT EASY IS SUPPOSED TO BE!", "unixReviewTime": 1130803200, "reviewTime": "11 1, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1MVPVKACK6K7B", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "B. Lohner", "helpful": [29, 35], "reviewText": "When connecting my Logitech Quikcam 4000 and my Logitech USB mouse through this HUB trouble is ahead.After starting a camera application (e.g. Yahoo Messenger) the mouse starts acting erratic and after a few seconds freezes completely. Disabling the camera application does not unfreeze the mouse.I checked with D-Link and they have no similar complaints on file so I am returning this Item to Amazon.com for a refund. and go with the advise of getting another hub.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "I also have the freezing problem", "unixReviewTime": 1051574400, "reviewTime": "04 29, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A1GHUN5HXMHZ89", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "C. A. Luster \"The Rook\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I have bought D-Link equipment for years. They may not be the very best in the industry, but they certainly are not overpriced as some manufacturers. I have found their equipment durable and dependable. Considering they are usually cheaper than the competition, I highly recommend their equipment. This USB hub is no exception. Shop around and you will see many competitors sell it for more than twenty-three dollars. This hub is fast and works well with most PCs USB ports and operating systems. If you have any issues it probably isn't the hub, but your USB interface. Check your USB set up for buses. Make sure you have the right software loaded. Some laptops are not configured initially to work with USB hubs and they require installing a USB Controller. If you are not familiar with how to use the Administrator tools to do it then go to the D-Link site or do a search on USB controllers on the internet.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great Pricing", "unixReviewTime": 1098230400, "reviewTime": "10 20, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A3BBCDCHC5U1VK", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "CAWireless", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "This is a nice little hub which takes up very little desktop space and has the ports on the front rather than the back, which I like. It has performed well since I purchased it and hasn't given any problems, even with bandwidth-hogging devices such as scanners. It also comes with its own power adapter, which is a plus.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Works as designed", "unixReviewTime": 1064448000, "reviewTime": "09 25, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A1QXLI41BROJCW", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "Charles H. Kuttner", "helpful": [16, 18], "reviewText": "We needed a powered USB hub to hook up scanner, webcam, and digital camera to our G4 iMac. The first two on the list needed to be plugged in directly to the iMac, or to a powered hub, so we were always shuffling plugs between these items.We bought this D-Link. Scanner, webcam both generated \"Low Power\" warnings on our screen and were unusuable. We had plugged in the power supply, done everything as per instructions.Finally just returned this to Amazon, and bought an IBM hub for about $10 less at local computer store. It works fine.So...either the D-Link design is poor, or we got a dud item.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "worthless", "unixReviewTime": 1155168000, "reviewTime": "08 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2U7CZX5IEUI0Y", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "Daniel Limbach \"Reader, writer, gadget guy\"", "helpful": [17, 19], "reviewText": "A usb hub is a simple appliance, right? It either works or it doesn't. Well, there are a few differences among hubs, and I'll point them out. The H7 incorporates the preferred feature in the descriptions below.1) Externally-powered beats usb-powered most of the time. Usb-powered units divide the available power across all the ports that are in use, so the more plugged in, the less power for each. I have a 4-port usb-powered hub that is only good for products that do not need much power. Things that work well in it are powered external hard drives (or other powered devices), a mouse, or a solid state memory device. High capacity/fast portable hard drives without their own power supply don't work well. They need a lot of juice.2) Vertical slots almost always beat horizontal ones.For example:[|||||||] is better than [-------]With the slots positioned vertically, I can use all 7 slots without a problem. If they were horizontal, and close together, some of the wider cables would not fit side-by-side. This is especually true with memory card devices. My sd card adapter is so wide, it would prevent another input on either side of it if they were horizontally oriented. I also like that all the slots are on one side of the unit. It's easier to organize cables when they are all plugged into the same area, rather than into several sides of the unit.3) Smaller and lighter is better. This unit is small and light, but not flimsy. It's the smallest 7-port device I have seen. It can be tucked into any number of spaces, so it fits well into your work space. One feature that would be nice would be a couple mounting slots so I could anchor it to a desk or wall using screws. The only downside of its weight is it can move around the desk, especially if there are several cables plugged in to it. On the plus side, the device is easy to pack and bring on trips.Overall, I can't think of a 7-port powered usb hub that offers more for less money than the H7.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Simply Ideal", "unixReviewTime": 1166486400, "reviewTime": "12 19, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AZS0YT2OY1TYQ", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "David A. Jaswaye", "helpful": [10, 11], "reviewText": "Earlier reviews I read on this product caused me to cancel my original order but I relented and placed the order once again.  I was concerned at the mention of the power plug taking up three spaces on a power outlet.The item I received today (December 2006) may have been redesigned because it takes no more space than the plug of a radio or table lamp on a power strip or wall socket.  The plug extends upward about 2 inches and is about another 2 inches wide but this is a GREAT improvement over my other plug-in power sources which command two or three sockets!I rate the entire hub at 5-stars.  It does exactly what it's supposed to do and was no effort to install.  I may buy another as a spare because the price is so good!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Plug No Problem", "unixReviewTime": 1166400000, "reviewTime": "12 18, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3R9KRIO25CKZV", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "I. Gross Georg \"imgeorg\"", "helpful": [15, 21], "reviewText": "I'm baffled, too. I don't know why a powered hub won't run my MacAlly iceKey keyboard, or my Canon S600 printer, or the brand new CanoScan LiDE60 scanner I had bought to use it with, but it looks as if I'm back to square one. All of the above items worked as soon as I plugged them straight into my MacMini's USB ports. Everything lights up I've plugged and unplugged the hub, and each time I get the \"low power\" warning, even for the keyboard. A hub like this is supposed to be plug and play, especially on a Mac. Something is wrong, somewhere. I've wasted an evening trying to get it to work. I'm out UPS 2Day shipping, but I'm sending it back.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Wouldn't even run the keyboard...", "unixReviewTime": 1154908800, "reviewTime": "08 7, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AI7BIKYQK7BGU", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "Joel Kolstad \"Zimbo\"", "helpful": [445, 469], "reviewText": "*** Note: Several recent comments have stated that this product no longer comes with a worldwide voltage input (100-240V) power supply.  That's a shame, and I'd definitely knock a star off the review if I could due to this change on D-Link's part -- I can only imagine it was part of a cost-cutting move. :-((Note that this review was originally posted in 2005, so it's been a LIFETIME for an electronic device and the DUB-H7's you buy today are likely quite dissimilar insofar as their physical construction goes compared to the ones from 2005.)Original review:I've had one for about six months now, and it's worked without problems.  One of the things I particularly like with it is that it comes with one of the newer \"slimline\" power supplies that doesn't block other plugs, works anywhere in the world (100-240V), and is more efficient than the old \"wall wart\" power supplies.Let me address some of the other comments here:1) For the guy with the Lexar data card... it is a blight on D-Link's reputation that their technical support was clearly incompetent (this is sadly true of many companies today -- being pushed there in part by the relentless \"drive to the bottom\" by consumers who often care more about price than quality and support), but I doubt that even a really good company could have helped much.  Although the hub may have somehow been at fault, it's also possible the Lexar card had problems -- even if it worked fine in other hubs.  For the record, I've used a handful of USB drives with this hub without problems... although not a Lexar brand.2) Regaridng plugging in a USB 1.0/1.1 device and slowing the hub down -- this doesn't actually happen, at least in the hub I received, but what D-Link is doing is hedging their bets (hence the word \"may\" -- which unfortunately these days many manufacturers use when the word \"will\" is more correct!): Inside the hub you'll find a VERY generic hub IC (actually, two of them), and D-Link has a lot of freedom to use different vendors' ICs based on price, availability, etc.  All of them are USB 2.0 hubs, but ones without so-called \"per port transaction translators\" will drop to full speed (12Mbps) if any of the ports have such a device plugged into them.  Happily, ICs like this are pretty much extinct today (when USB 2.0 first came out they were around).  In any case, your solution of just getting two hubs certainly still applies.  I agree this should be a little bit more prominently advertised, but so should a lot of things about USB, WiFi, etc. -- the oft-touted data routes of 480Mbps and 54Mbps (respectively) are pure fantasy, for instance, in real world applications.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "This item is getting something of an undeserved rap here...", "unixReviewTime": 1120262400, "reviewTime": "07 2, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A23VGBG17K5NJ3", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "John Nolley II", "helpful": [75, 78], "reviewText": "I originally purchased this hub to make it easier to use multiple USB devices with my laptop while using it at my desk at home.  My printer, mouse, barcode scanner, and thumb drive are all USB devices, and pulling the laptop out to unplug one and attach another was getting rather old.It's a smallish hub, but not one so tiny that the ports are so crammed together so as to be nearly useless.  At 4 inches wide and less than an inch tall, the hub should easily fit on any desk, and the rubber feet help hold it in place.  The ports are widely enough spaced that you shouldn't have a problem attaching cords, thumb drives, or other USB devices.Since I planned to use it only at my desk anyway, the caveat that an A/C adapter is required didn't bother me--but I've found that the hub works fine without any A/C power at all, and despite the instructions claiming it doesn't draw power from the USB bus, the power LED lights up, and all devices work fine.  Without the A/C adapter in use, the hub also runs quite cool and doesn't suffer from the lock-up problems others have mentioned.If you plan on using mostly powered USB devices--like printers, external hard drives or CD/DVD drives--you should be fine using the hub \"unpowered.\"  Using it for a keyboard, mouse, barcode reader, and thumb drive may require the use of the A/C power for reliable operation.  And if you're worried about putting too much of a power strain on your laptop's USB bus, connect it via a docking station (as I do) or use the A/C adapter.  Still, with that said, many people should be able to use it just fine without having to add another bulky \"leech\" to their power strips.Finally, the manual does state that the use of both USB 1 and 2 devices at the same time may cause the hub to drop into USB 1-only mode.  I stress \"may,\" as so far the tests I've run with older devices in combination with a USB 2.0 CD burner have worked fine at USB 2 speeds--I assume then the compatibility depends largely on the actual devices used.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great USB Hub; Works without A/C Power for Me", "unixReviewTime": 1111536000, "reviewTime": "03 23, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3SF2N0BJF0YJS", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "N. Caine", "helpful": [241, 254], "reviewText": "I think the other reviews largely get it right. Two things I haven't seen in them, however: first, the plug on the power cord is in the shape of a wide black monolith, so, like bulky a/c adaptors... Second, the included documentation says that the hub will revert to a USB 1.1 hub FOR ALL DEVICES if you have any USB 1 device connected. It says that to get USB 2.0 throughput, you must disconnect all USB 1.0 or 1.1 devices from the hub first. That's worth knowing.Finally, if you buy the hub, I suggest going to Windows Update and downloading the optional USB 2.0 fix for WinXP SP 1.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Two features worth noting", "unixReviewTime": 1090886400, "reviewTime": "07 27, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A35YXM589XJD9G", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "Raymond J. Ackley", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "I've been using this hub for a few weeks now and it works as advertised.  One of the big things I LIKE about it is it doesn't *require* the power adapter - it will run 4 devices just off the USB 3.0 line power.  This includes 2.0 devices - so even if you're looking to use USB 1.1 or 2.0 devices, if you use this 3.0 hub (and plug it into a 3.0 port on your computer, obviously) it can power those devices too, without the extra power brick and cable.My only wish is that it had more than 4 ports!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Good 3.0 hub that doesn't require a power adapter", "unixReviewTime": 1325894400, "reviewTime": "01 7, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A2J1WRE1KQ5CS2", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "R. Harke", "helpful": [24, 25], "reviewText": "=== NOTE 2013/06/08 ===  The following is my review for the 4-port USB 3.0 hub. I originally reviewed the 7-port grey styled USB 2.0 hub, which is discontinued and replaced with a black styled one with different features, however they are listed under the same product code on Amazon. To make it even more confusing, Amazon has combined the 4 port USB 3.0 hub into the same item, so I can only write one review to cover all of these things. I will leave the original review lower down, but if you are interested in the USB 3.0 hub, then this review up top is what you want.This hub has been really flaky for me. Most of the time it doesn't recognize what I plug in. In order to get it to work, I have to jiggle all the cables around. I don't know if it's the cables that are loose or if there's something loose inside, but it's a real pain.The hub has purple LEDs in it, which only serve to annoy me. I'm not 12 years old, I don't need my equipment to look like a circus.Also, the ports are UPSIDE DOWN. Seriously, this is really silly. Yes, there is a TOP and a BOTTOM on USB plugs, but I guess D-Link didn't get that memo.This item gets two stars, because it didn't catch fire and I can sometimes connect devices with it.=== NOW, here is my original 2007 review for the 7-port grey USB 2.0 hub which is discontinued === I gave it 4 stars back when I wrote that review === Originally titled \"Works well if you don't overload it\" ===I like the way this hub is styled, I have to say that much. Functionally, it gets a passing grade, and frankly if you grade it on a curve against other brands, it does very well indeed.It works quite well, as long as you don't overload it. The supplied power adapter provides 5V/3A which, if you do the math, is only enough to fully supply 6 ports with power. Real world, it supplies even fewer than that. So, this will work well for you if only some of your devices require bus power, but if a lot of them do then you will have problems. I have 6 ports loaded up with a mix of powered/unpowered devices and it works. But if I try to plug something into port 7, it rarely works- just not enough juice.You could probably fix this if you sourced yourself a different power adapter, but let's face it, that would probably cost more than buying another hub.All this being said, I'm still going to buy a second one to supplement my first one, because, quite frankly, it seems like most of the other brands of 7-port hubs are worse. At least this one is perfectly reliable if you don't overload it- no overheating problems, no random drop-to-usb-1.1-speed problems, no disappearing device problems (again, as long as you don't overload it), and it doesn't look terrible on my desk.I have terrible luck with USB devices and this is the first hub I've run into that comes halfway close to working properly, so despite the flaws, this one is worth considering.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Flaky, unreliable, questionably designed. Look elsewhere.", "unixReviewTime": 1171152000, "reviewTime": "02 11, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1NJV1EI28TLQY", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "Sev \"stisev\"", "helpful": [14, 19], "reviewText": "After reading the mixed reviews on Amazon, I decided to take a leap of faith and purchase this USB2 hub. Oh man o man o man... I have had problem, after problem, after PROBLEM with this thing.First off, if ALL OF YOUR DEVICES ARE NOT USB2, it will revert to usb1. For USB1 purposes, it's decent.Secondly, I am experiencing massive and sporadic incompatibility issues with my 2.5\" hard drives, Canon PIXMA 4000 printer, etc.I have never ever had any other problems with USB hubs, so I assumed this would be a decent experience, but it's been a nightmare", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Avoid this USB2 hub like the PLAGUE.", "unixReviewTime": 1139443200, "reviewTime": "02 9, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1PQBWZCHIFEGN", "asin": "B00006B7DA", "reviewerName": "testmaster", "helpful": [62, 67], "reviewText": "This is a note that applies to all USB 3.0 hubs.After 1.5 years of having USB 3.0 random disconnections to my WD external USB 3.0 drive (with or without a hub) on Windows 7,I recently did research and experiments again to mostly solve these random USB 3.0 drive disconnections and random hangs during shutdown/startup,also affecting a new laptop.After applying items 1 and 2 below, these random disconnections are much more rare and so also are my related shutdown/restart hangs(and if a hang occurs I know to do item 3 and the hang will be over for my system).==============================================================================================================Partial workarounds in a nutshell for all USB 3.0 hub/disk disconnection problems on Windows 7:1) Do one time (each USB 3.0 disk): Ensure the USB 3.0 disk properties Policies has \"Quick removal\" selected for each USB 3.0 disk(not \"Better performance\" which uses a Windows cache -- a bad idea if USB 3.0 disconnects at random).2) Do one time (each year): Ensure the USB 3.0 Controller driver is up-to-date(hint: don't ask Windows to find the latest driver for download -- it often won't -- instead ask google).3) If Windows hangs on shutdown or startup, try this first to rule out USB 3.0 problems:unplug some USB 3.0 cable from the disk along the path to the PC, wait until the system is fully up again, then plugin the cable.To be proactive and prevent such a hang due to USB 3.0 being confused over what is connected,make sure My Computer (ie. explorer) shows the USB 3.0 disk is connected before you do a shutdown/restart.4) If at any time the USB 3.0 disk does not show as connected,unplug some USB 3.0 cable from the disk along the path to the PC, wait 5 seconds, then plugin the cable.==============================================================================================================Potential workarounds that had no effect on Windows 7:No effect: Setting in Control Panel->Power Options the USB Settings for your current power scheme to set \"USB selective suspend setting\" to Disabled seems to be a good idea, but appears to have no effect on the USB 3.0 disconnection problems.No effect: disabled from Startup on my older laptop the process nusb3mon.exe (which does not exist on the newer laptop).No effect: Microsoft workaround to add ForceHCResetOnResume to all USB Host Controller classes (using regedit):google: One possible solution for the hub just disappearing==============================================================================================================Details for effective workarounds 1 and 2:#1) HowTo: Ensure the USB 3.0 disk properties has \"Quick removal\" selected for each USB 3.0 diskTo avoid/reduce random disconnection of an external USB 3.0 drive connected to any USB 3.0 hub it seems important to make sure that the external drive properties is set to \"Quick removal (default)\" rather than \"Better performance\". Disabling the Windows 7 USB 3.0 write cache seems important for reliable connections and non-hangs on shutdown/restart, not to mention loss of data in some circumstances. To check or set this, do this:-- Goto Control Panel->[System and Security->]Administrative Tools->Computer Management->Device Manager-- Click Disk drives-- Rclick \"WD My Passport ... USB Device\"->Properties (or whatever your external USB 3.0 drive is called)-- Click tab Policies-- If you see \"Better performance\" selected, then you should change this to \"Quick removal (default)\" to get more reliable USB 3.0 connections, thus turning off the Windows 7 write cache.#2) HowTo: Ensure the USB 3.0 Controller driver is up-to-date(Updating the driver solved one laptop's problem of the USB 3.0 drive always being disconnected after waking from a sleep/hibernate).-- Goto Control Panel->[System and Security->]Administrative Tools->Computer Management->Device Manager-- Click Universal Serial Bus controllers-- For each USB 3.0 Controller (probably only will be one) -- look for all names that match ...USB...3...Controller...-- Rlick on that controller name, then click Properties-- Click tab Driver-- Find the \"Driver version\" number which we'll refer to as DRVVER (eg. 1.0.19.0 or 3.0.226.3)-- Also find the driver name (we'll refer to as DRVNAM) which is at the top of that Driver tab(eg. \"NEC Electronics USB 3.0 Host Controller\" or \"Fresco Logic xHCI(USB3) Controller FL1000 Series\")-- Do _not_ click Update Driver unless this is an Intel driver, since other brand drivers will probably not be found this way(Windows cannot find updates for most non-Intel brand drivers, and its \"no updates available\" message is misleading)-- Now google for DRVNAM (without the quotes) followed by \"driver update\" or \"driver download\"(eg. google: NEC Electronics USB 3.0 Host Controller driver download)-- Now be careful: only download and install (then reboot) a driver version greater than DRVVER (your current version)and which exactly matches your driver name DRVNAM. When you verify your driver version is the latest, you are done.==============================================================================================================Update: I paid for the Driver Reviver software (rated as one of the very best) to update *all* the dozens of drivers on my PC, including everything to do with USB 3.0. There are many other competitors to this software, and I'm sure many of them are fine (I can just vouch for this one after spending a lot of time choosing). I have not had a single problem since then (about 6 months ago). Before updating my USB 3.0 drivers, it was a nightmare of lost connections for both of my different brand Win 7 PCs, no matter what hub I used.I claim that all USB 3.0 hubs nowadays work equally well, assuming that all your USB 3.0 drivers are up-to-date and that the hub has sufficient power for the number of connections you have plugged into it and that it is manufactured well enough so that the cords fit into and stay in the hub. The DC power provided and the fit of the cords into the USB 3.0 hub are all you need to consider (if you are willing to update all your USB 3.0 drivers).", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Partial workarounds in a nutshell for USB 3.0 hub/disk disconnection problems on Windows 7", "unixReviewTime": 1330560000, "reviewTime": "03 1, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A3CNKBPESQZ2C6", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "Alex Turner", "helpful": [14, 30], "reviewText": "This lens looks on the surface to be a great all-purpose lens, and at first the pictures looked a step up from myCanon PowerShot A720IS 8MP Digital Camera with 6x Optical Image Stabilized Zoom.  It has image stabilization, and a good range, I thought it would be a good general purpose lens.  I quickly became disillusioned with the results, many pictures where out of focus, so I thought I would compare it against my other lenses.  What I discovered surprised me.  I took the cost effective 50mm lens, the 100mm macro lens, the 70-300mm IS lens, the kit 18-55mm and the 28-135mm and took the same pictures at focal lengths of 50mm and 100mm of a batik (where possible).  I made sure I had adequate lighting to avoid camera shake (1300 watts total, plus all pictures were above 1/50th second), which I thought might be the culprit, and took a series of photos with each lens at f4.5.  The worst lenses by far were the 28-135 and the 18-55 which gave about the same results.  Whilst the 100mm macro lens (from the same distance) and the 70-300mm IS, and often the 50mm showed the grain of the canvas on which the art was imprinted, the 28-135mm and the 18-55 were not sharp at all, and sometimes downright blurry.  This was at a distance of about 2 meters (12 feet).  There were 5 test pictures, in every single one, the 100mm macro lens gave the best result (just ahead of the surprisingly good 70-300IS).  The 28-135 was very disappointing.  I think the sample was wide enough to eliminate operator error.  I wondered if my camera was failing to auto-focus properly, but the results with the 100mm are perfect 9 times out of 10, often even when working at macro ranges with autofocus on, and bad 10/10 with the 28-135mm.In short: Avoid this lens if you want crisp pictures. Get instead theCanon - Lens - 50 mm - f/1.8 II - Canon EF(though some say the f1.4 is better, I might agree, but it's over 4 times the price, and this is definitely a step up from the 28-135), and also theCanon EF 100mm f/2.8 Macro USM Lens for Canon SLR Cameras.  It won't set you back that much more, and you'll get much better pictures and be able to do macro work!  You might argue that the 28mm end would be missing, but the kit lens takes as good photos as this lens, so you're not missing much except perhaps better manual focus, but I would imagine few are using manual focus with this lens.Other problems you may find are that the zoom barrel will extend of it's own accord if you point the camera downward.  I also found that I had to take two or three pictures at a time to get one that was anywhere near in focus and correctly exposed.  Lens certainly won't just 'snap' the moment first time, I dread to think what it would be like on action shots.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "There are better lenses out there - avoid this one", "unixReviewTime": 1233619200, "reviewTime": "02 3, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A2ZECYNBMKNY78", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "As I mention in the title of the review, this is the opinion of a serious amateur.  If you are a pro (or have such aspirations) or have a large equipment budget, you'll likely be looking for something else.  For those of us who have to make our hobby money stretch a long way, here's my review:I purchased this lens in September of 2007 for use on holiday in Italy.  I've used the lens extensively since, but its performance on the trip was  an incredible trial by fire.  As it was a two week trip and luggage space and weight were at a premium, I wanted to only bring one or two lenses that would cover most of the situations I thought I would encounter.  I chose the EF 28-135 for two reasons:  its range of focal length and the image stability feature.With the typical 1.6x crop factor, I found my outdoor shots of landscapes and architecture rather tight, even at the 28mm focal length.  This is of course not the lens's fault, but rather my choice and my camera's limitations.  Otherwise, the lens was spectacular.  It is crisp, focuses quickly, and yields consistent, predictable shots.At this point, I have to comment on the IS.  Many ruins and almost all churches and museums prohibit both flash photography and the use of tripods.  In the face of these hindrances, the IS was simply a life-saver.  One of several such examples involved over 500 year old tapestries in the Vatican.  They were presented in a darkened room with only muted, indirect illumination.  With the IS (and a steady hand) I was able to shoot them at 1/4s shutter with results, considering the subject, which were nothing short of amazing.  If you're jittery and off balanced, it's not going to do much for you.  But if you need to stretch a few vital stops while using good technique, it is amazing.Pros:-Great value-IS isn't a gimmick.  It works well if used correctly.-Excellent image quality for the price-point-Nice range of focal lengths in a single lensCons:-Barrel extends considerably at the telephoto end with noticeable slop.-For a consumer lens, this thing is huge and heavy.  When you're carrying it with the hood (not included) equipped, people are going to stare.-Not quick, whatsoever.  It's listed as f/3.5-5.6, but you'll be shooting at the higher end of that at most focal lengths.Summary:A great walk-around and travel lens for many circumstances.  In my opinion, the best Canon lens for the novice photographer in terms of both price and flexibility.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A great, flexible lens for the serious amateur", "unixReviewTime": 1206316800, "reviewTime": "03 24, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A1B2T9LI5KWT8P", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "Andrew Simmons", "helpful": [531, 543], "reviewText": "While I considered purchasing a Canon 10D, I also started looking for a good first lens.  Most of the reviewers and Canonites on the various forums suggested this lens as a good starting point.The 28-135mm IS USM Zoom is the one I use all the time now on the Canon 10D, and that will be the case until I get over the sticker shock of the 10D/28--135mm combo and start adding other lenses to my kit.In the meantime, this lens gets the job done very well.  It gives you good range for a variety of of shots, from portraits to telephotos.  There is even a macro mode, which gives you the opportunity to do close-ups--not really a true macro, but okay for shots of flowers, your kitty cat's face, etc.  It is the flexibility of this lens that makes it so appealing if all you have is just one lens.  And remember that if you mount this lens on a digital camera, like the 10D, the range is actually extended by a factor of 1.6.The USM focuses fast, and the Image Stabilization (IS) really works.  In fact, I've been spoiled by it, and IS is now a must for any of the longer lenses I might purchase in the future.The IS system \"locks\" on target so that camera shake is eliminated or at least seriously minimized.  This means fewer shots ruined by camera shake, and the IS system allows the user to shoot handheld at slower shutter speeds.  This isn't just advertising hype.  It works.The image quality is quite good.  I get good color saturation, contrast, and sharpness.  After tweaking some shots in Photoshop, I was able to turn out some excellent 13x19 inch prints.As others have pointed out, if you are just starting out with a Canon DSLR or SLR and want one good general purpose lens, this is it.As of August 2008 I have sold this lens because I have moved on to Canon \"L\" glass, but the EF 28-135 is still a great lens to start with if you are just beginning to learn photography.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent Walkabout Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1056067200, "reviewTime": "06 20, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A2PE8MHVAVFV8B", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "A. Vienot \"DIY Audio Enthusiast\"", "helpful": [12, 13], "reviewText": "Arguably the best Canon walk-around lens for the money if you're not buying \"L\" series gear.  The USM system is fast and quiet, the full-time manual focus is very helpful when re-selecting a macro target, and the image stabilizer makes for better hand-held shots at slow shutter speeds.  The physical construction has only one flaw: The lens is heavy, and much of the weight is concentrated in the front element, meaning that accidental telescoping will occur once the mechanism loosens up with use.  That's a \"when\", not \"if\", so expect it to happen eventually.That issue aside, it has very good image quality, offers as much zoom range as any hobby or pro-sumer photographer could reasonably demand in one lens assembly, and even produces usable high-magnification shots in the near-macro range (shown as \"Macro\" in the focus assembly's depth-of-field window).  The 1.6x crop factor on APS-C bodies (pretty much any Canon dSLR except for the 1Ds and 5D series) will limit this lens' effective field of view at 45-216mm, even though the curvature and depth of field will still be 28-135mm equivalents.  That's a little narrow on the low end, so the EF-S 15-85mm IS USM lens and EF-S 17-55 IS USM lens should definitely be considered by all APS-C owners before making the final purchase decision, but most shooters won't have any problems with this lens.The lens has a 72mm filter adapter, so good-quality filters (particularly 72mm circular polarizers) will be fairly pricey.  Buyers should budget around $50-75 for a decent circular polarizer and a UV filter/lens protector.  Search \"72mm filter\" on Amazon to see a good selection.Final note: Don't be fooled by Amazon's ongoing policy of deceptive list prices for SLR gear, which they would never charge and no sane person would ever pay.  As I write, Amazon is showing a crossed-out $753.77 as the List Price for this lens, while the inflated MSRP on Canon's own US website is $479.99.  Amazon's current \"real\" price of $359.99 is very competitive, but it is not a \"52% savings\".  I'm disappointed that Amazon's marketing department has so little respect for their customers, but their customer service quality remains excellent, so buy with confidence -- just be sure you know your fair market value prices before clicking through.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great walk-around lens with only one fault", "unixReviewTime": 1276905600, "reviewTime": "06 19, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "ASPEZ4NXLQYHY", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "Bob Zamudio \"Mexican Buyer\"", "helpful": [27, 30], "reviewText": "", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Travel Photography", "unixReviewTime": 1215561600, "reviewTime": "07 9, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "AGXV8E7XK9J6H", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "Brian Koch \"Aspiring Photographer\"", "helpful": [30, 30], "reviewText": "This lens has a great range especially when combined with a 1.6X camera body such as the XT, 20D or 30D where you end up with a 216mm equivalent.  It works great for macro work due to its relatively close minimum focusing distance, you can enhance this by using extension tubes also.  The IS is nice if you don't feel like taking along your tripod.  It is not too heavy even when carrying it around all day.  The only other lens I would consider in this range, if you have the cash, would be the 24-105 L series.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Nice All-Around Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1146182400, "reviewTime": "04 28, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3ACJ58WZVJEML", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "Bryan Duggan", "helpful": [170, 177], "reviewText": "Finding unbiased, reasonable, reviews of camera lenses can be more difficult than one might imagine. A large percentage of the reviewers deem anything that does not live up to the quality of the highly esteemed \"L\" class of Canon lenses to be, frankly, inferior.I almost didn't buy this lens because so many members of a forum that I frequent bashed this lens and recommended the 24-105L as the only really \"good\" choice in the focal range I wanted. Fortunately for me good sense pevailed and I bought the 28-135 anyway. The fact that the 24-105L was three times the price ($1200) certainly weighed heavily on my decision.SO GLAD I DID.This lens is well built, has a very usable focal range and (at least my copy) is RAZOR sharp. I expected good quality of a lens this price, but I was not at all prepared for the stunningly sharp images that it renders. Color and contrast are very good. The other good \"walkaround\" lens in this price point is the 17-85mm. I tend to prefer a longer focal length and the 28-135 qualified me for Canon's generous triple rebates so the choice was clear. F3.5 is fairly fast and the IS does allow hand holding in lighting conditions that would otherwise necessitate a tripod, but for very low lighting you may want to try the 50mm F1.8 prime (They're only $80, buy one).So if you are hesitating to buy the 28-135mm for any reason please don't listen to the \"L\" snobs, it's a great great lens.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "28-135mm IS as good as they say it is.", "unixReviewTime": 1135900800, "reviewTime": "12 30, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AWAV9TGXRIXI", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "Cory Geurts", "helpful": [18, 19], "reviewText": "This is the kit lens that came with my 50D.  At least half of the first 2,000 photos I took with this camera were with this lens.  Many reviews are listed here, so before buying I would recommend looking at a variety of these reviews to see if this is the right lens for your needs.  For me, the lens worked pretty darn good under most conditions, but it's by no means the best nor is it a perfect fit for every user.  Let me explain why.The Canon 50D is my first digital SLR - I just migrated from a set of 3 film Minolta bodies with several high-end, mostly prime lenses.  I've never really liked the picture quality of point & shoot cameras, so the 50D + 28-135mm lens seemed like a good, affordable fit for me.  Since I do mostly weddings and portraits, I knew a good portrait lens was a must so at the same time I boughtCanon EF 85mm f/1.8 USM Medium Telephoto Lens for Canon SLR Cameras, another well-priced lens.Within a week we were off for a month in Vietnam and Korea.  Been to both before but this time wanted to photograph a lot of memories.  The 28-135 is very lightweight and convenient (as is the EF 85mm), so weight or size were never an issue.  The Image Stabilization (IS) is nice to have.  The 28-135 body is plastic, so the feel is a little chinsy but the image quality wasn't bad.  But 'not bad' and 'outstanding' are not the same.Keep in mind that the 28-135 has a variable aperture, ranging from f/3.5 to f/5.6.  If you're ever planning on advancing beyond the symbol icons on the mode dial, venturing into aperture-priority (Av), shutter-prioity (Tv), or other modes, then you're going to need a larger aperture, at least f/2.8 or faster. If you want to use zoom lenses, having a constant, fixed aperture is going to make your life easier and your photos look much better.It quickly became evident that this lens is what it is.  It's an inexpensive kit lens.  Does it blow away point & shoots?  You bet!  Can it take beautiful shots?  Of course!  But my experience is that stellar shots are more of the exception than the rule with this lens.Remember that a large part of successful photography is technique.  Just having a nice camera or expensive lens doesn't necessarily qualify you to work for National Geographic.  The flip side is, if you want pics that are going to knock 'em dead, you have to start with good equipment.  If you're going to stick with inexpensive lenses, you're going to have to work much harder (and take a lot more photos) to get the money shots.  With good technique and with the help of a few other factors (good composition, appropriate lighting, a tripod, a good model or a beautiful scene, the right weather, plain luck, etc.), it IS possible to get great shots.However, for many people, sooner or later the day will come when you realize that this lens can't keep up with your skills or photographic needs.  For me it was about a week into vacation - about the point when I was familiar with my new camera, and I started to see the difference in the photos I was getting with this and the Canon EF 85mm f/1.8 lens.For the price, the package is excellent.  This lens is one of the best values I have seen.  There are days when you just want an easy, lightweight, 'everyday' lens that won't break the bank and wont break your back, and you don't have to worry about the lens getting damaged.  For a lot of people, this lens will be a perfect fit for many reasons.  And I will say it again, you CAN get awesome photos with this lens.But for more advanced users, this lens will quickly become the limiting factor, the weak link in the chain.  Go ahead and buy your camera with this kit lens, get acquainted, and have some fun.  But put some money aside for an eventual replacement.  Canon provides many options, depending on your specialty.  For telephoto zooms, Canon offers a handful of different 70-200mm lenses.  TheCanon EF 70-200mm f/4L USM Telephoto Zoom Lens for Canon SLR Camerassells for under $600 and is the least expensive L-series lens available.  A little more expensive but a good high-end replacement for the 28-135 isCanon EF 24-70mm f/2.8L USM Standard Zoom Lens for Canon SLR Camerasat around $1300.  For wide-angle enthusiasts, tryCanon EF 16-35mm f/2.8L II USM Ultra Wide Angle Zoom Lensor its cheaper cousinCanon EF 17-40mm f/4L USM Ultra Wide Angle Zoom Lens for Canon SLR Cameras.You can see the direction I'm going.  If you want to move beyond the amateur level and get more control of your images, if you want to use some of the robust features of your camera and get more compliments on your photos, you're either going to need one or more prime lenses, or you'll have to go the route of Canon L lenses.  Yes L lenses are expensive, but the color and crispness they bring to your photos is phenomenal.  I started with one, then added another.  And I still have my EF 85 f/1.8.  I've got the tools I need to take the quality photos I want.As for the 28-135, I can't complain.  For the price, the value is phenomenal.  It's gotten me some beautiful shots.  It also left me with some slightly hazy shots at a wedding and more over-and under-exposed, off-color images than I care to remember.  That's why for me, it's love-hate.  But like most unsatisfying relationships, the time came when I had to move on.  Farewell 28-135.  Been nice knowin' ya.  Buh-bye.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Love-Hate relationship: \"it's complicated\"", "unixReviewTime": 1277769600, "reviewTime": "06 29, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A3DCWVLM3XWU2Z", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "Damon Gross", "helpful": [20, 20], "reviewText": "I need to start of by saying that I am new to Digital SLR cameras and lenses, and am by no means an expert.  That said, I find this to be a very good lens for the price.  I was origionally considering a number of lenses, most of them L lenses, and finally selected this lens based on its decent zoom range, its image stabilization technology, and of course its price.  I use this lens now as my main lens on my Rebel XTi, as it does a decent job of getting close up (almost macro) shots, wider angle shots, and mid range telephoto shots.  The image stabilization technology works pretty much as advertized.  It definitely gets you a crisper picture with it turned on while hand holding, and it has saved me from using a flash in a number of situations.  My only real complaint would be chromatic aboration, which is somewhat noticable in high contrast situations.  Overall, I don't think you can go wrong with this lense for the price.  If you are looking for an all-in-one carry lense with good features and overall good image quality, this should be on your short list of lenses.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Good lens for the price.", "unixReviewTime": 1174953600, "reviewTime": "03 27, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3LRQ7K3G4ETBM", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "Derek L. Wong", "helpful": [15, 19], "reviewText": "This lens is a good general all purpose lens.  It is an IS USM lens that has is not to big, or heavy.  The pictures are crisp and clear, but no where near the quailty of L-class.  This is an in between lens.  It is between a zoom and a wide angle lens.  It may be wide enough to get a decent shot, and it may be good enough for a little zoom action. very multipurpose.pros:  IS-USM both very good features in the cannon lensgreat clean crisp picturesthis is an EF, not and EF-S lens which hopefully will make it more adaptable to higher class SLR models if you choose to upgrade to a larger sensor.the price is very reasonable.some of the cons are the construction.  again, not L-glass, plasticly.f-range is not the best.  but then again its a good multipurpose starter lensclosing.  very reasonable lens for the price.  a great addtion to a budding lens collection.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great Every day lens", "unixReviewTime": 1170806400, "reviewTime": "02 7, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AYE02ZA444NE5", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "E. Frisvold", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "Just bought this lens for my new XTi and can't imagine being any more pleased. As other reviews all confirm: focus is fast and quiet, slippage isn't an issue (hopefully that will be true over time) and the IS lives up to the marketing for low light shots.Note that the \"wide angle\" end of this zoom isn't very wide, so we bought the standard lens with the XTi, instead of buying the body only, so we would have the 18 mm wide angle for shooting in tight areas.There are just two small warnings about this lens:1) It is pretty hefty. To get all this quality you need some substance, so beware that the strap might get a little heavy around your neck by the end of the day. For my wife's small hands the weight is significant, so we'll use the 18-55 that came with the camera for when we don't need the big lens.2) The focal length adjustment ring is a little tight in some areas, which makes fine adjustments jerky. Hopefully that will loosen up over time.Overall, a great standard lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "First lens to buy for your new Canon SLR...", "unixReviewTime": 1182297600, "reviewTime": "06 20, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3DWWRF10F82FE", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "Eric D. Crane", "helpful": [20, 22], "reviewText": "This lense lives on my camera.  I got the 17-85mm kit and there are rare occasions that I put that lense on for wide angle I would not spend the money on it now.  The 1.5 crop factor of the Rebel, 10D, 20D, 30D really hurt on the wide angle but make this lense great for all around use.Photos are crisp and clean if you have enough light or a stationary subject.Great all around lense.  The best first lense for a 1.5 crop DSLR.  Don't bother with either of the kit lenses.  The 17-85mm is too slow and the 18-55mm is a throw away.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best bang for the buck lense in canon line", "unixReviewTime": 1168300800, "reviewTime": "01 9, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3KDK8IJCSG3JC", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "G. Carter \"Grim Jeeper\"", "helpful": [21, 23], "reviewText": "If you own the XT or 20D, this is the perfect walk around lens!  It doesn't get particularly wide and it doesn't zoom very large, but with the 1.6x crop factor, the zoom is better than expected.  Imaging is clear and precise and the image stabilization feature is fantastic.  The macro function isn't overly impressive, but it's solid.  Other lenses will focus much closer, but this isn't meant to be a specialty lens.  It's a jack of all trades lens that excels at everything it was designed for. You simply can't go wrong with this lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Perfect walk around lens", "unixReviewTime": 1136246400, "reviewTime": "01 3, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3OASPX3DOPG99", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "Glen A. Sansoucie \"gsansoucie\"", "helpful": [72, 72], "reviewText": "I bought this lens last year for my first Rebel (300D).  I used it a lot to take indoor shots with and without a flash (the 420EX Speedlight works well with this lens).  I've been able to photograph my daughters' (both) at various school events (band, chorus, etc) with and without a flash.I just upgraded my Rebel to the Rebel XT (350) and this lens works even better at the higher resolution!I recently started using it for more obscure things like nature closeups.  The lens is a dream in this capacity as you sometimes have to hunt around a lot to find your \"target\" and only have a few shots before it is gone again.  The IS helps ensure that one of those few shots work out well.If I have a complaint, it is the size.  It is rather long, and was a pain in the neck before I bought a new bag.  I took a leap of faith and decided to replace this lens with the new Tamron 18-200mm Di II Zoom.  Well, after about a week & half the Tamron was packaged up and is heading back.  There is no competition!  Should Canon decide to go the \"DO\" route and shrink this lens (like they did with the 70-300) I might replace this one, until then it is \"stuck\" on my Rebel XT.Oh yeah, important stuff:  The IS feature uses power from the camera battery.  On the behemoth of a battery on the original Rebel, I could go on and on.  With the XT, however, I seem to get about 300 - 400 photos before having to recharge the battery (even then it is about 1/2 full).  So far this is not a very big issue.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great All Purpose Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1123459200, "reviewTime": "08 8, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AG8XXURGEVC3", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "Greg Acuff", "helpful": [32, 33], "reviewText": "When I say outstanding, I'm comparing it with my 24-105 f/4 L IS lens, my 28-75 2.8 Tamron, the original 17-85mm f/4-5.6 IS kit lens and just for a high bar my 70-200 f/2.8 IS L (nothing beats that one).  I've found that when using the EF lenses on a cropped sensor camera like my 30D and 20D, some of the \"lesser\" lenses perform very well because they're using the center \"sweet\" spot of the lens.  Taking this into consideration for this review, I've found it very hard to tell the difference in photos between the 24-105 L lens and the 28-135 non-L lens.  The 24-105 L lens is built more sturdily, has the constant f/4 apperature, and has extra weather-proofing but the 28-135 lens is less than half the cost, has IS, and gains 30mm in zoom.  So seriously, if you aren't thinking about buying your lenses for the day when you upgrade to a full size sensor camera body, the 28-135 lens, for the price, is a fantastic deal.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "An outstanding lens", "unixReviewTime": 1155945600, "reviewTime": "08 19, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1H1BGQZNE5SXK", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "Jean-pierre Le Clair", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "This is the first IS lens that I've owned. I had trouble justifying the extra expense but am now quite pleased that I took the step up.Keep in mind that tis is an EF not EF-S lens. This makes its effective focal length about 45-215mm on my Digital Rebel.I love the zoom range (great for shooting action shots of kids without getting in their faces) and the ability to easily control the depth of field on my nature shots.Just uploaded some of my recent shots with this lens under \"Share your own customer images\".Pete LeClair[...]", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Have been shooting with tis lens for about 5 months", "unixReviewTime": 1159660800, "reviewTime": "10 1, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1XINNG3IMIBSR", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "Jim", "helpful": [25, 27], "reviewText": "I use this lens as my single \"walk around\" lens on my Canon 10D.  It's versatile, wide enough to catch most scenes, with enough telephoto to be useful outdoors - and the IS works great!  The optics are also exceptionally sharp.  If you have the money, this is my recommmendation for a first lens, esp with the 10D.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "THE Canon  beginner Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1069891200, "reviewTime": "11 27, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A3PXICZ0O2H3VO", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "John Davidson \"Magic Feather\"", "helpful": [19, 34], "reviewText": "Either it was damaged in shipping, or I got a defective lens.  For whatever reason, the picture quality on any photo taken on this lens (with every setting, stop, is on/off, tested) came out blurry, particularly on the left side.  Photos taken with my old stock 18-55 lens were dramatically clearer.  The zoom range was decent, but I'm disappointed.  Sending this lens back.  It didn't even come with a manual.  I was really looking forward to a lens upgrade.---Update -I reordered the same lens from the same folks and, surprise, this one came in a real Canon lens box with manual and everything.  Clearly the one I sent originally was not brand new.  Be advised, if you don't get a manual and a canon box, you're getting sent something that someone else returned.  That said, the new lens is beautiful.  The shots are crisp and even using it for a few pictures, it's pretty awesome and the best lens I have.If I could, I'd change my rating from 1 star to 4.  For the hassle I went through returning the bad lens, I have to take away a star.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Defective, no manual, all images blurred - incapable of focusing correctly", "unixReviewTime": 1255132800, "reviewTime": "10 10, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "AHROSV6WJOEGY", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "John Faughnan \"John G Faughnan\"", "helpful": [29, 35], "reviewText": "Update: The manual focus ring has a tricky behavior -- at one point I thought it was broken and called Canon tech support. If you turn past the 'stops' at either end (infinity and closest) it keeps sliding. Basically the ring is simply a rubber sliding strip that's read by a sensor; it's not the direct mechanical interface geezers like me recall. So what appears to be a defect is not.With ongoing use I'm more annoyed by the bulk of this lens. If at all possibly I recommend weighting for a lens designed for the APS sized sensor, not a lens like this that's built for a full frame sensor. It's a nuisance to pay the \"full frame tax\" of excess bulk on a lens that one would prefer to use quite often.I bought this for my birthday and I'm happy with it. So why the snarky seeming title? It's because about 30% of this lens is wasted for most dSLR users. I knew that when I bought it, but I was tired of waiting for a better solution. If you are able to wait until Feb 2007 it might be worth sitting things out.-- ORIGINAL --For the good news see all the other reviews. The one thing I'll add is that you need to think about when and how to use the image stabilization. Unlike IS products that sacrifice pixel resolution, this is an optico-mechanical solution, a spinning lens -- presumably in air or magnetic bearings. Move the camera slightly, the lens remains immobile.If you remember your physics, you can think of times when this won't work. If the camera is accelerating or decelerating too much, the lens will bounce around -- blurring the image. Point the camera straight down or straight up and the bearings may not suffice. Rapidly panning to track a nearby fast moving object may not work. The manual says you should press the button and wait 1 SECOND before shooting. That's conservative (it takes probably 1/5 second) but it's a good guideline. If you need to do rapid panning, use a tripod and turn off the IS (it should never be used if you're on a tripod). If you're focusing on your daughter 100 yards away dribbling a soccer ball you should be ok -- as long as she's not rocketing along. It works quite well indoors and I don't notice it blocking the flash on my Rebel XT.Now the wasted bit. This lens is made for a full-frame 35 mm size  sensor -- the kind that's on Canon's higher end pro digital dSLR and their legacy film camera. The APS sized sensor on almost all of Canon's popular dSLRs (and ALL of Nikon's dSLRs for that matter) is 2/3 of the size of a 35mm sensor. So about 1/3 of the light output of this lens is scattered about the innards of the camera.The result is a magnification effect and wasted glass. The magnification effect is not all bad. A \"normal\" lens for a Rebel XT is about 32mm, so this is basically a normal to zoomy lens. Pretty much the range I wanted. The wasted glass means the lens is 1/3 heavier and bigger than it should be, and the scattered light is sometimes said to cause image degradation (I wouldn't notice).The lens most of us really want is a 28-200mm IS USM Zoom built for an APS sensor for under $500. In other words, the next version of this lens. It would weigh about the same and have about the same f stop and size, but it would have 50% more magnification at the top end. That lens is not available for Canon cameras from any manufacturer. Alas, Nikon has committed to APS sized sensors fully so they DO make something like that.Canon will eventually crack and make the lens we want, or someone else will. So you can try waiting them out. In the meantime, this is a very nice lens and if you're a Canon amateur it's likely a quite good choice. Be prepared, however, to sell it for half-price next year and buy a new one ...", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "A transitional product for most dSLR owners", "unixReviewTime": 1154476800, "reviewTime": "08 2, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1LXESUUNI846B", "asin": "B00006I53S", "reviewerName": "J. W.", "helpful": [19, 19], "reviewText": "This is a great general purpose lens.  The zoom range is almost perfect for everyday shots (wish it starts at 18 mm).  IS works great as other reviewers have already pointed out.  Instead of repeating what other reviewers have already written, I want to point out that IS will compensate for camera shake due to hand movement, but not movement of the subjects in your picture.  So if you are taking pictures of people (or other moving objects) with the lens zoomed out in low light, it's highly recommended you use a flash so the shutter speed stays reasonable.  This worked for me taking pictures from >100 ft away, full 135 mm zoom, with an 580EX flash on my digital rebel XT, and the pictures of the people I took came out quite sharp.  So the conclusion is that IS is good, but you should still have a good flash in your kit for best all around performance.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great lens, use IS with external flash for best results", "unixReviewTime": 1158451200, "reviewTime": "09 17, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3II1ST5AF2MJG", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Allan", "helpful": [18, 18], "reviewText": "I have had this radio about a week, and it is my first such since I had a Zenith Transoceanic back in the 1960s (a warbling wooden suitcase), so I know nothing. The Sony is a compact little jewel with a well-made, tight-fitting vinyl case.It takes some time to program (preset) good stations, as there is no dialing, which is probably a good thing. First, I put the 10 best FM stations on Page 1, and the 10 best AM stations on Page 2. These presets can be accessed directly by \"speed dialing\" 0 through 9, or scanned one after the other by pressing Scan. Next I made Page 3 for SW stations. I found on the web the bands that are good at night and day, and began scanning them and writing down strong stations. Letting the radio scan takes time, as it pauses 3 seconds every 5 mhz and there are many bands of mhz to scan. There are very few English SW broadcasts to the US, and I am in the middle of the country, so there is not much at all. I decided to dedicate Page 3 to night SW stations, of which there are enough good ones to fill up the ten presets. Page 4 will be for morning and daytime stations, but there are so few strong daytime English stations that there will be only a few presets on that page.I am disppointed that so many of the strong English SW stations seem to be religious (bible) broadcasts. I think one must take a worldband radio out of the US to hear good English news SW, as little English SW seems to be broadcast at the US. The BBC website says that there is change in listening habits away from SW and its broadcasts to the US are now on satellite radio.I have the included reel antenna stretched out across 20 feet of windows, and a $100  20\" diameter active Sony AN-LP1 folding antenna in one window. They seem about the same, and not a lot better than the radio's own whip. The AN-LP1 will be good where there is only one window to use or no room to string out the reel, but I wonder if it justifies its cost. The little speaker is fine for SW and for voice, but not satisfying for music, so I have gotten a $30 Logitech X-14 powered speaker system for local FM and AM, which also sound great through Sennheiser MX-400 earphones.I bought a Maha MH-C204W charger kit and two sets of 2650 NiMH rechargable batteries, and the first set is going strong after a week of fiddling. I think a table says they should last 40 hours.The Sony radio, the AN-LP1 antenna and the Maha charger kit, all in their respective vinyl cases, fit neatly side by side in a zip-top toilet article kit about 10\"x10\"x3\". I like the price, quality, features and compact size of this radio. As a worldband radio it is great. I would give it 5 stars if it sounded better for general listening, but then I suppose the speaker would have to be more powerful, the case would have to be deeper, and the batteries might not last as long.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Take time to program it", "unixReviewTime": 1173830400, "reviewTime": "03 14, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AZTAC5WZ4QDRN", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Arne W Flones", "helpful": [382, 390], "reviewText": "For many reasons this is absolutely the best valued shortwave receiver on the market.1. Synchronous detector!  It enables the radio to lockonto signals with tenacity.  It reduces fading and noise andenables you to eliminate interference by selecting a sidebandon the other side of the interfering signal.  On the SW7600GRit works very well.  No other radio at this price has syncdetector.2. Build quality.  Made in Japan.  The radio even feelsrobust.  It is.3. Sensitivity.4. Great portability.Of course there are also some liabilities.Sound through the little speaker is not as good as somecompeting products.  But given that this little Sony blowsthe competitors away in almost all other respects,this is a minor quibble.  The sound isn't bad; it justisn't room filling.  As a personal radio this isn't sucha liability.  Plus, you can always use earphones or connectto auxiliary speakers (Cambridge Soundworks?).The memory system is simple, without alphabetic labels.There is no tuning dial, just jog buttons for scanningthe bands.  Simplicity makes for easy operation, though.FM reception is respectable (much better than the veryexpensive big brother the Sony ICF-SW77).  Standard AMreception is good, possibly very good.  But if you areinterested in DXing the AM bands, you already have aGE Super Radio.It doesn't have an AC adaptor (and you should AVOID buyingthe horrible--and horribly expensive--official Sony adaptor).If you want to power from AC, get an inexpensive one.  I powermine with rechargeable NiMH batteries which work better thanalkalines and can be reused hundreds of times.  Buy twosets of batteries and you'll always have a set charged andready to go.  Battery drain is respectively low and the unitfunctions perfectly on the slightly lower voltage NiMHs.As a travel radio, or as an introduction to shortwave, I can'tthink of a better unit.  Probably the best recommendation forthe 7600GR is that in spite of all the laudable reviews, usingone for the first time still surprises.  Originally pricedat just under $200 US, current street prices make this anincredible value.Now for the bad news.  Sony is getting out of the world bandradio business.  These little gems may soon be unavailable.So if you're interested in the 7600GR, now is the time.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best Value -- Get one while you can", "unixReviewTime": 1102636800, "reviewTime": "12 10, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A3B8FRWV1HKQE6", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Douglas C. Rennie \"Rainguy\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "The Sony 7600GR shines most brightly in the realm of true SW portable radios, top of the pyramid. Only the Eton/Grundig E5/G5, and perhaps the Kaito 1103 are close, but the latter has seriously flawed ergonomics.First off, the Sony is just the right size, that is small enough to carry with you anywhere, even during extended airline travel, but large enough that its controls are widely-spaced and easily accessible. I also own the G5, but find it too small to handle without accidentally pushing some control,  and its buttons too small and tightly-packed. In terms of performance, I get consistently stronger signals with less hiss/noise on the Sony vis a viz the G5; also, the Sony enjoys superior signal strength boosts with the use of a modest external antenna (clearer, cleaner signal with less hiss than the G5). Moreover, the 7600 has synchronous detection to lock in weak signals (the G5 does not), though I have to say I haven't really noticed much of a difference when using it. The Sony divides the single sideband into USB and LSB while the G5 does not; hence, SSB reception was MUCH better on the Sony: many more pickups, clearer signals. However, I'd say that the G5 has a somewhat richer, fuller sound than does the Sony, though it's hardly a night-day difference, But it's there, the Sony having a slightly tinnier, sharper, more \"glassy\" sound, a drawback obviated by the use of headphones.I find the Sony much easier to navigate than the G5 where you seem to be constantly pushing buttons to get around from band to band, freqeuncy to frequency, and the memory buttons are tiny (and require concentrated focus to hit) compared with the big, round, widely-spaced buttons on the 7600 where you can hold the right side and easily punch in changes with your thumb. However, the G5 does have a tuning wheel which is a semi-major flaw in the Sony, though with its 1Khz tuning buttons, you have the same measure of precise control. Still, the tuning knob is unquestionably the best band scanning device.AM reception and FM reception, for me, are slightly better on the Sony, though the difference is slight. On the SW bands, I much prefer the signal strength and low background hiss/noise on the 7600 compared with the G5, especially enjoying noticably stronger signals when using an outdoor-mounted slinky (which seems to inject mainly hiss into the G5). If signal strength for a SW frequency is, say, 3 or 3+ (out of 5) on the Sony, it's generally 3- or so on the G5.As for build quality, the 7600's heft, feel, general overall qualilty of solidity and sturdiness exceed those of the G5. That is, other than the whip antenna anchor which is really loose, almost flimsy. So far, it's held up, but I am always aware of its wobbly base when manipulating the antenna.Now I live on the west coast, the worst place in the country for SW reception, so the experiences of listeners in more lively zones may be wholly different. But for me, after using both radios regularly and doing numerous head-to-head comparisons over about 6 weeks, the Sony is the hands-down winner. The G5 is a good, even very good, SW portable but the Sony is a near-great one.One suggestion I have is this: If you buy a 7600GR (or even a G5, or some similar-sized portable), go to Universal Radio's Web site ([...]) and order one of their clear plastic radio stands which holds your radio firmly in place and at an ideal viewing angle. It's about 7\" wide and costs about 7 bucks. Makes SWLing much easier. I have no connection to this company, but think this is a tip worth passing on.Postscript 3/28. Just read the review below mine, re AM reception. Not my experience at all. My 7600GR picks up at least 20 AM stations with hiss-free clarity, \"5\" on a 1-5 scale. I even get KNBR in San Francisco, 600 miles to the South and some AM station in Calgary at level 4. AM reception is really powerful on mine.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Best, Period.", "unixReviewTime": 1206576000, "reviewTime": "03 27, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A26X7W5UM5QFT4", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Grits", "helpful": [10, 11], "reviewText": "First the good points - and focus on these.  I'd buy this again, knowing what I know now.  It's just that I'd be aware of a couple of things that need to be known prior to purchase.  The radio itself is great!  It's well constructed (not some light weight, cheap, thin and brittle plastic cased wannabe short wave radio.  This is relatively expensive and well worth the money. It's been on the market for a number of years, and keeps getting very high marks by such people as ham radio operators who know radios and know what to look for.Sound out of a small speaker is adequate - not worse than one might expect (and shouldn't expect much more).  What's most impressive is the frequency stability - drift is almost non-existent on mine.  Sideband is outstanding, particularly in this price range.  We bought ours primarily for emergency purposes in case of a wide-scale or extended power outage, but it's turning out to be \"fun\" for this former ham radio operator that's still kind of picky.Sensitivity is quite good.  CAUTION: if you aren't familiar with shortwave propagation, study up on it just a bit on the Internet or you'll be very disappointed and do what some other reviewers have apparently done.  Depending on time of day, solar storm activity, and other factors, different bands have different characteristics.  Sometimes you can scan up, and up, and up (or down), and never have it lock on to a single signal.  There are times when some bands are simply \"dead,\" and at other times those same bands (frequency ranges) can pull in signals from all over the world.  This is NOT something that Sony has any control with.  If the band's open, this radio will pick up nicely.One huge flaw is that this is OBVIOUSLY made to make men look stupid to their wives.  We never need instructions for anything - just dig into the box, plug in whatever it is (or add batteries), and use it, right?  That's how we men are!We just intuitively know how electronic and mechanical things work - we don't need no stinkin' manual!  Guys - if you can somehow get to the instruction manual before you even let anyone know the radio's been delivered, STUDY it.  There are just too many functions to be able to intuitively fit on the limited number of buttons on the front of the radio.  So do your homework and you can continue your streak of brilliance in front of your kids or your honey by taking it out of the box, sticking in batteries, turning it on, and start programming the heck out of it after pulling in China, India, BBC, South America, etc.!  (tongue-in-cheek switch / OFF).  Seriously, in order to take full advantage of all the features, this is not entirely a do-it-yourself project.  Read the manual first.  That's not a criticism, just an observation.  This radio is not an on-off, select your band, turn the frequency knob, and listen.  There's much more, and it's part of why the radio sells for the price it does - it's head and shoulders above the price-range competition.Now for the reasons why I did not rate it 5 stars.  There is no external power supply included - and you supply the batteries (all the more reason to take it out of the box before Christmas in order to \"set it up properly\" - there's your excuse so you can read the manual after everyone else has gone to bed).  ;-)  Come on, Sony - at that price, a cheap 6v plug-in power supply ought to be included.Second, and this is a BIG hit on Amazon - DO NOT buy the Sangean antenna listed as \"frequently bought together\" with this receiver.  I got caught on that and purchased something that is IN THE BOX.  It's not labeled \"Sangean,\" but there is little doubt it's the same antenna inside, with just a minor cosmetic difference on the outside (mostly the Sangean label).  It most likely came from exactly the same factory.  Not only does the product description say there are only the internal ferrite bar antenna and the telescoping external antenna on the top of the receiver, with no mention of the plug-in long wire antenna, but the Amazon ad itself says many people buy the Sangean antenna along with the Sony receiver, implying you need to purchase it separately.  The fact is, the external plug-in long wire antenna that appears to be the same thing as the Sangean antenna, is IN THE BOX with the receiver.  Yes, I called Amazon immediately, and yes, Amazon apologized, gave me a postage-paid shipping label, and promptly credited my credit card when the Sangean antenna was received back by Amazon.  In that regard, Amazon was at their usual greatness.  But the ad for the radio (including the extended item description) are misleading or outright wrong.Without those two glitches (the lack of an external power supply included, and the antenna BEING included but being \"pushed\" by Amazon and not listed in the product description), this would otherwise have been a very solid 5-star rating.  Note: we give very few 5-star ratings.  The product has to be way above the competition, virtually flawless, and far more impressive than just \"that's a really great [product].\"  So to say it's otherwise a 5-star rating says a lot about how much I like the radio.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Nearly 5 Stars (a couple of glitches - still great!)", "unixReviewTime": 1323216000, "reviewTime": "12 7, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A3CMO216CWOF5N", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "jr_Tech", "helpful": [48, 49], "reviewText": "For several years Sony has been moving away from the Shortwave marketplace that they once dominated. One feature that Sony included on many of their more expensive radios was the Synchronous Detector circuit, which can make a big difference in the reception of signals that are suffering from selective fading and/or adjacent channel interference. Sony seemed to \"get this right\" more often than other other producers of SW sets (few even offered it).But alas, the famous 2010 (one of my all time favorite SW radios) is gone, the SW-77 is gone, the SW-100 is gone and this year the highly innovative SW-07 has been deleted.The 7600GR is the only remaining Sony with this feature... I would not wait too long, or it may be deleted as well!Ok, but one feature does not define the radio. I must add that the 7600GR does very well when compared to more modern designs. On AM and Shortwave, reception is quite sensitive, and with the sync detector, the fact that only one bandwith is provided is not a large handicap (many sets have two bandwidths available).FM reception is good but not up to the level provided by the Eton E-5, Kaito 1103 or even the Kaito 1102. LW reception on the 7600 is very sensitive, and it has better \"image rejection\" (fewer false signals) than the E-5 or Kaito 1103. The 7600 does not have a tuning knob, so \"bandscanning\" is not as convenient as on the E-5 0r 1103. Note: the Kaito 1102 does not have LW or tuning knob.In Summary, this is a well-built high quality (still made in Japan) radio that stacks up well against its competition.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Last Sony for sale with Sync Detector!", "unixReviewTime": 1148169600, "reviewTime": "05 21, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3MSA5OYI58L0A", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Juan Gonzalez", "helpful": [18, 19], "reviewText": "This is the best SW radio you can buy for under $150 but it does lack a few features that would have made it the best radio ever. Since this radio picks up shortwave it would be nice to know what meter band you are on. This radio does not display the band, only the frequency. Tuning the radio is another problem since it doesn't have a knob, only buttons. The Kaito 1103 is a superior radio because of these features and matches the performance of the Sony except maybe for bringing in distant AM stations. It also costs less. I have both radios but I use the Kaito much more.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great SW radio that could be better", "unixReviewTime": 1157673600, "reviewTime": "09 8, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1XMMIP11MZCGN", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Karl J. Zuk", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "The last remaining Sony shortwave radio is the miraculous ICF-SW7600GR. It is the product ofdecades of development and expertise. Can one radio do everything you've dreamed of (especially forunder $200?) Yes, it can.My perspective includes decades of listening beginning 47 years ago in 1965. Back then, a standardshortwave radio for a casual listener was not portable. It was a five-tube desktop model that simplyexpanded upon tried and true AM radios found in every household. If you needed advanced features andhigh performance, you would need to invest in an expensive multi-tube boat anchor!Times have changed dramatically. The Sony ICFSW7600GR covers 150 kHz to 30 MHz, featuring adouble conversion design with synchronous detection, along with the 76 to 108 MHz ready for FM receptionworldwide. Gone are mechanical pushbuttons. The Sony challenges you to fill up 100 electronic presetmemories! Included is a multi-zone clock displaying local time and UTC. You can choose regular AM receptionor USB/LSB along with CW. A very useful RF gain control and a display light (for night operation) areprovided, as well. The features go on and on!My smiles began early. I was extremely impressed with its operation. The controls are quite intuitive and simpleto master. I entered one of my favorite frequencies, 14.060 MHz (the 20 meter CW QRP calling frequency) andimmediately heard a one watt station calling CQ. The telescopic whip antenna was down with just my fingerresting upon it. There was no shortage of in-the-clear shortwave broadcast stationsto listen to. How do they make a portable radio this selective and sensitive?More early trials produced more amazing results. Again, with no whip antenna extended, I pulled inseveral time reference broadcasts from America's WWV and CHU Canada. Reverting back to my childhood, Itried aeronautical VOLMET weather frequencies and logged New York, Gander, Newfoundland and Shannon,Ireland immediately with little effort. The precision of frequency direct-entry combined with theclarity of the sideband reception was almost unnerving! Plenty was heard on 30 and 40 meter CW. All Icould say was `Wow!'One transmission lives on through the decades. Radio Australia still broadcasts towards the east,covering the Pacific islands and beyond, every morning on 9580 kHz. They have ruled this frequency fordecades with a dominant signal that is hard to surpass. I took the ICF-SW7600GR to work and tried to pickthem up. Radio Australia locked in with full quieting while standing by a window. I walked into the buildingamong literally tons of electronic equipment surrounded by steel and concrete. The signal could still beheard! I know Radio Australia uses a lot of power but this is miraculous.Longwave reception was also pretty remarkable. Again, with just built-in antennas, I logged NDBs (nondirectionalbeacons) FR 407 kHz in Farmingdale, Long Island and OGY 414 kHz near Jacob Riis Park in TheRockaways in Queens. These stations are used as navigation aids and transmit very slow AM modulatedMorse Code continually. You'll never hear a station more anxious to be logged!The ICF-SW7600GR also offers synchronous detection. You can derive a full AM carrier from justone sideband. This is particularly useful if you have a very strong adjacent station or you are trying tomaneuver through digital IBOC HD Radio interference. I often get clobbered by the digital sideband of KDKA1020 Pittsburgh while trying to listen to WBZ 1030 Boston. Synchronous detection can make this noisymess into something quite listenable. It is certainly welcomed at this listening post.This is a sophisticated radio delivered in a classy manner. It is beautifully designed and quite attractive.The ICF-SW7600GR is the size and weight of a somewhat heavy paperback book. Every button and controlwas found in a logical place which could be easily memorized for in-the-dark middle-of-the-nightreception. The LCD display is big and easy to read. With 100 memories, you don't need to do a lot of directtuning. Multiple frequency comparisons are a breeze. Sony even thought of every final touch. The unit comeswith a very attractive black cloth case. Slip the radio into the case and a fold-over leaf covers it neatlysecured with a couple of pieces of Velcro.I'm sure I have only just begun to appreciate everything this radio can do. I'm still mesmerized withdirect frequency entry. There is no noticeable drift and the battery life seems endless. Sony's operationsmanual goes on for dozens of pages. Also included is the 128 page Sony Wave Handbook, a very comprehensiveall-band guide to familiarize you with the world of shortwave and beyond. A cute self-containedreel of wire, with built-in end clips, is included as a useful portable antenna. Sony included everything youneed to get started immediately. You can become a fairly sophisticated worldband listener by just openingthe box. What fun!The essence of shortwave has not changed that much since 1965. All the bands are still there. You'lleven find several new band allocations for broadcasters have come alive. Like visiting old neighborhoodsfrom your childhood, often the flavor has become something completely new. Many of the old standardbroadcasters are hard to find or gone entirely. The Netherlands, Switzerland, Sweden, Germany and eventhe BBC and Voice of America are missing in action. Many religious stations have popped up along withsome newly dominant Asian broadcasters.As a side note to this review, this receiver can also be used as a fairly accurate frequency counter.Maybe I need to get out a lot more, but nearly everything I use to pursue amateur radio has either inaccurateanalog tuning or dubious digital tuning without reliable accuracy. With a zero-beat accurate SonyICF-SW7600GR around, I can finally discover what frequency I am actually transmitting on!In a reality check, I am certainly aware that this wonderful receiver is really nothing new. Its direct ancestor,The Sony ICF-SW7600G, was first released in 1994 and has nearly every feature the current ICFSW7600GRoffers. This Sony line of compact shortwave receivers can be traced back to 1977 with the release of theoriginal ICF-7600 featuring an analog tuner. The current model employs all the lessons learned from this long legacyto produce a remarkable product. The Sony ICF-SW7600GR is a great deal of fun available for very little money.Get one and enjoy every minute.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Bundle of Joy", "unixReviewTime": 1343779200, "reviewTime": "08 1, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A3GVXKCTFN3YDN", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Lawrence H. Bulk \"Lawrence H. Bulk\"", "helpful": [34, 34], "reviewText": "If you want an AM/FM/Shortwave (plus Longwave) radio which is a superb performer yet won't break the bank, this is the one.I can flatly state that this radioSony ICF-SW7600GR AM/FM Shortwave World Band Receiver with Single Side Band Receptionis positively the finest compact portable shortwave, longwave (and AM/FM) receiver currently on the market. I believe that it is the finest compact portable shortwave receiver ever designed.To get anything more capable, you will have to spend a LOT more money - and it is possible that, unless you research the market VERY carefully, you may get something which is not as good!This receiver is simple to operate after reading the owner's manual. JUST MAKE SURE THAT YOU READ IT! Also make sure you UNDERSTAND it! If you do not, or are not sure, then re-read it! Re-read it as often as necessary. You need not be embarrassed - no one else will know how many times you have read the instructions! (It shouldn't take more than one or two CAREFUL readings of the instructions to fully understand them.)You must realize that this is NOT an ordinary analog AM/FM radio where all you do is turn it on, select AM or FM, and maybe change the stations with a knob.This is in fact a sophisticated portable communications receiver and thus requires a learning curve if you are not familiar with shortwave reception. (I have read some reviews here on Amazon's site which clearly demonstrate that the writer[s] did NOT read the instructions! You'll be able to easily spot those for yourself.)If you do read and follow those instructions, this radio is quite easy to use and, by following these instructions (and also by reading some basic books about shortwave listening such asPassport to World Band Radio, 2008 Edition (Passport to World Band Radio)andWorld Radio TV Handbook 2008: The Directory of Global Broadcasting (World Radio TV Handbook)), you will derive maximum benefit from the radio. Once you have learned how to operate this receiver, you will find that using it becomes very intuitive and VERY rewarding! (Please note that the two books mentioned above introduce new editions each year; you can check for them here on Amazon.)This receiver contains just the controls necessary to bring in signals clearly, thereby eliminating much complication that can cause difficulty in use.Its main claim to shortwave fame, in addition to its overall superb design, is its inclusion of a synchronous detection circuit (as well as full single sideband [SSB] reception), available on no other currently available new receiver in its size- and/or price-class. This circuit can make the difference between hearing a station or not hearing it. It can almost totally eliminate interference from a close-by frequency. The circuit also works on the AM band and eliminates selective fading distortion, commonly heard around dawn, dusk, or evenings when listening to distant stations. (The skywave comes in slightly behind the groundwave, or the skywave itself comes in out-of-phase, and causes distortion on other radios which makes an announcer sound as though he/she has a VERY bad cold! This annoyance will not occur on this Sony.)For shortwave listening, it is quite sensitive off its whip antenna yet is robust enough to handle a significant external antenna, should the owner decide to use one.With this radio, the user can easily and conveniently hear, at appropriate times of the day, English-language broadcasts from England (of course!), China, Canada, the Netherlands, Germany, France, Russia, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Viet Nam, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Jordan, Egypt, Israel, Argentina (with some GREAT tango music), India, and many, many more. Also, for those conversant in various foreign languages, there is no shortage of those as well. It is fascinating to listen to news and commentaries from these various countries and to compare equivalent news items. It is particularly interesting to see how some countries will emphasize or de-emphasize certain items and, of course, the varying opinions expressed in their commentaries are of great interest to us here in the United States.ASangean ANT-60 Short Wave Antennacan improve shortwave reception but is not truly necessary. (The Sangean can be plugged into the radio's antenna socket; the wind-up antenna Sony supplies with the radio cannot. It must be clipped to the whip antenna.)Regarding AM performance, this radio is superb. If desired, its AM reception can be improved by means of aTerk Technology AM-1000 Advantage Passive AM Indoor Antenna, used inductively, but this too is not really necessary. Local stations come in, as expected, extremely well, both day and night (especially with use of the synchronous circuit) but what is unexpected is how well this relatively small radio receives long distance stations. At my location, Canada, Cuba, and the Dominican Republic often come in like locals! Other stations from around the country do so likewise. These signals come in loud and VERY clear. One would not expect such high quality performance from a radio this size. And while some other radios in this category may be as sensitive as this Sony, not one of them has the synchronous detection circuit which \"cleans up\" the received AM signal and makes it fully listenable.FM sensitivity, selectivity, and capture ratio are all excellent.This radio has been manufactured unchanged since 2001; its predecessor model (from which there were only minor changes) dates back to 1994. Incredibly, in all this time, no other manufacturer has been able to design a radio even equal to this Sony, much less superior.Its construction quality is absolutely first-rate. It is still manufactured in Japan (for Sony by Towada Audio Corporation, a company located in Kosaka, a town in the Kazuno District, Akita, Japan; they actually developed the radio), unlike all other compact shortwave portables which are manufactured in China (or, rarely, in Taiwan). Japanese build quality has long been noted for it excellence and this difference really shows. Believe me, just a cursory hands-on examination or comparison between this one and any other receiver in its class will confirm that its construction quality is second-to-none (and is even better than some tabletop communications receivers).In order to buy something \"better,\" you would have to spend at least three times the price of this radio and what you would get (the Eton E1, for example) would not be anywhere nearly as portable as this one. (Nor will its construction quality match that of this Sony.)Some people have complained about the whip antenna being somewhat delicate. In fact, all whip antennas can be damaged relatively easily. In that regard, this Sony radio is no better nor worse than any other. In any case, however, the exact replacement antenna is available from PartStore&lt;dot>com. The antenna takes less than one minute to replace.Sound quality is pretty good - great for news/talk, somewhat less so for music on FM. But even this can easily and inexpensively be corrected by means of a cable available from your local Radio Shack that will connect the radio, via its line output jack, to your stereo system. Or, should you wish to use powered auxiliary speakers, thisLogitech Compact Speaker System Z320 for Notebooksis inexpensive and works extremely well. Of course, there are also much more expensive powered computer speakers which may (or may not!) provide better sound than the Logitechs. The choice, as always, is yours. I really like the Logitech Z320s.This receiver can be powered by four 'AA' batteries - either by standard alkalines or, better and far more economically, by rechargeable 'NiMH' types. The radio is very efficient with batteries; a set lasts a very long time and, of course, rechargeable ones can be recharged over and over again.The radio has over 100 memories (100 \"regular\" memories, 2 more memories for the alarm clock function, and one each for the bottom of each shortwave frequency band). These memories do NOT disappear when changing or even removing the batteries. They are totally non-volatile and will remain essentially \"forever,\" until you manually change or delete them. Even the clock remains for several minutes while changing the batteries. If, however, you remove the batteries for a long time, then you will have to reset the clock. This is very easy to do and is the only thing necessary to reset. There are, in fact, two clocks, one of which can be set to your local time, and the other which can be set to any time zone you desire; I have mine set to UTC [GMT]. (When you set the local time, the other time zone is automatically set as well so you only have to set the clock once.)Sony no longer offers a suitable AC Adapter for this radio. However, Radio Shack does. And the Radio Shack AC Adapter (Cat. # 273-025; the appropriate Adapt-A-Plug [free with purchase of the adapter] is Cat. # 273-1705) is not only better than Sony's original, it is smaller and lighter in weight, and less expensive, costing only $12.99. This adapter and plug can be bought at any local Radio Shack store as well as online if you wish. (It is too bad that Amazon does not sell this adapter!)All in all, this radio, especially at Amazon's current price, just cannot be beaten in terms of value for money.It is, in my opinion, the best value in a shortwave receiver currently on the market and, in a world full of often ephemeral electronic \"gizmos,\" one of the few genuine electronic bargains.This is a radio that the owner will never outgrow!================================================================================================================Update: May 16, 2008To improve shortwave reception at home or when traveling, I recommend the Sony AN-LP1 Active Antenna in addition to the Sangean ANT-60 mentioned above. The AN-LP1 is powered by two AA batteries, folds neatly, and fits into a convenient storage bag. While it is for indoor use only (it mounts in a window) or outdoor use only on days on which there is no wind blowing, it is an extremely useful addition to the owner's armamentarium.If you wish to purchase one (it sells for about $115.00 including the shipping) there is an advantage and a disadvantage - and they are both the same! Currently this antenna is being sold ONLY by an eB@y dealer in Japan (just Google \"Buyfromjapan\" and then enter \"AN-LP1\" in his search box) -- but he is absolutely reliable and FAST - you'll have your antenna in less than a week by Express Mail - and he takes the usual major credit cards as well as PayPal.I believe that using an AN-LP1 with an ICF-SW7600GR results in an almost \"perfect\" portable shortwave reception center.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Finest Compact Portable Shortwave Receiver", "unixReviewTime": 1197158400, "reviewTime": "12 9, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AZV6OGQRNDLOT", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Lee F. Bonaldi", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "This is an excellent radio for the price. I have owned it now for almost a month and have been very pleased with its performance. Reception is good, and I have been able to pick up a number of stations around the globe very easily (bear in mind this is short wave radio we are talking about, don't expect the same type of reception you get from FM!). I like the digital tuner, as I don't get the drift that I get from my other short wave with analog tuning. The size of the radio makes it easy to carry around whereever you go. An added bonus (at least in mine) was the external antenna that was included in the box.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent Radio for the Price", "unixReviewTime": 1088035200, "reviewTime": "06 24, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A1GWQIOSUI37T4", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Marco De Vivo \"Mr. TCP/IP\"", "helpful": [34, 38], "reviewText": "This ia an excellent SW radio. As a matter of fact, the best for its price. The only catch is the lack of noise-free (filtered) SONY AC adapter.The newer replacement Sony AC adapter, called the AC E60A emits interference (RFI) making it unsuitable for use with world band radios. Sony does not currently offer a satisfactory AC adapter for the Sony ICF-SW7600GR(...) AMAZON censored this review. I suggested originally  an URL to solve the problem with the adapter (Universal Radio -- check under Sony ICF-SW7600GR), AMAZON doesn't offer the right adapter but (selfishly) deleted the URL. It seems as there are new rules in AMAZON. Sorry.ADDENDUM: Unlike the 7600G, the GR mutes for 1 sec. for EACH press of the frontal panel tuning arrows. So you can't tune by repeatedly pressing the arrows and hearing what  is being received (as I usually tune the 7600G). IRRITATING to say the less.Even worse, like the 7600G, the GR also mutes while scanning.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "AC adapter that works without interference . .CENSORED. . .", "unixReviewTime": 1112313600, "reviewTime": "04 1, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1FUP9G6ZWZK4A", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Mitchell Regenbogen", "helpful": [16, 17], "reviewText": "This is a terrific value.  Very sensitive on shortwave and mediumwave (I don't use it for FM), built like a tank, good on batteries.  It is conveniently small, and although its speaker won't fill a concert hall, it's an excellent speaker for its small size.  Fine home and travel radio, even if that's travelling around the house or yard.  The only better portable shortwave receiver out there is the Grundig Satellit 800, which costs three times as much and is the size of a tank.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Sensitive, selective, reliable and durable radio", "unixReviewTime": 1089072000, "reviewTime": "07 6, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A3NCIN6TNL0MGA", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "M. JEFFREY MCMAHON \"herculodge\"", "helpful": [11, 14], "reviewText": "The ICF-SW7600 GR fulfills what it promises to be: a high-build quality portable AM/FM Shortwave radio with excellent sensitivity on all bands. Bear in mind it does not come with an AC adapter so you've got to cough up another fifteen bucks if you don't want to always replace batteries. With the adapter, the SW7600 costs well over 160 dollars, not small change for a radio that comes with a little tin speaker. For seventy dollars less and equal sensitivity and performance, you can get the Kaito 1103, which by the way comes with an AC adapter at no extra charge. In fact, the Kaito 1103 actually gets better FM. At the high price point of the Sony, I suggest you try the less expensive Kaito 1103.Update 4-5-07: If you don't mind a slightly larger radio, you will get better sound and sensitivity with the Kaito 2100, a rebadged Redsun. And the price is about the same as the Sony.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Sony Delivers What It Promises", "unixReviewTime": 1134777600, "reviewTime": "12 17, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A22A0XQLYBO7LH", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "M. Sabo", "helpful": [27, 36], "reviewText": "If anyone is considering, the Sony ICF-SW7600GR world band receiver radio, I suggest looking for another portable set.  I read the reviews and then made the purchase.  My main interest was to purchase a good shortwave radio.This radio cannot pull in the signal very well at all even after clipping an extension wire onto the antenna.I located an old Grundig YB305 portable digital shortwave radio to compare to the Sony.  The old Grundig is far a better radio then the Sony.  The Grundig YB305 pulled in every signal and locked on.  The Sony scanned right over them as if they weren't even there.  Here's a brand new Sony radio and I am going to have to see if I can get some warranty work to fix the problem.To compare the sound, I will say the Grundig YB305 is better.  There is a fuller rich sound for playing the FM music.  Sony is okeh, but not great.You would think that if it's a Sony it's gotta be good, but the Sony is a phoney.Currently I am only using the Sony as an AM/FM radio.I looked into warranty work and Sony will replace it with a refurbished one that may have cosmetic damage.  I didn't purchase this radio to trade it in on someone's old refurbished radio.  The cost to me would be the price for mailing the radio in, maybe $25.  $25 extra to listen to SW...that is if the replacement radio will work as intended.  Still taking a chance here.  I am now attempting to locate someone who can maybe fix my radio.  If not, I will continue to use it as an AM/FM only.In the old days the radio could be brought to a Sony repair station to be fixed.  There used to be one in the area but that is not the case now.  Getting someone else to fix it is not worth the cost as the total would equal the purchase price.Appears with the mass produced chinese @#$* products there is no quality control.  You may get a good one or you may get a bad one.  Word of advice, do not throw out the box right away like I did on trash collection day.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Sony ICF-SW7600GR is Phoney Bologna", "unixReviewTime": 1245974400, "reviewTime": "06 26, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A2H48TF6UI4MAL", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Nicholas de Lioncourt \"&#60;/collectivism&#62;\"", "helpful": [45, 67], "reviewText": "Verify... verify... I had placed the Sony ICF-SW7600GR (currently in the $150 range) into my shopping cart after reading the positive reviews and yet one attracted my attention at the last moment. Within that review, the author mentioned that the AC power cord was not included.Amazon reported the power cord was no longer offered (Sony ACE60HG AC Adaptor $22.99); so I searched about the web to discover the AC power cord is $49. At six other businesses, the power cord is consistently $49.For what reason would I purchase an AC cord at 1/3 the price of the radio - this seems to be a basic inclusion with the product. The power cord to my PC was only $3 - my other electronics CAME with a power cord.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Did not purchase since AC adapter is...", "unixReviewTime": 1095120000, "reviewTime": "09 14, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A208F20NUCU1T4", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Raymond J. Jepsen", "helpful": [19, 29], "reviewText": "With just a little more common sense and effort, this radio could have been great. However, I found it to be a huge disappointment. The first thing you notice is that the whip antenna is not securely attached to the radio and moves around loosely within the plastic radio housing. When the antenna is fully extended, this translates to a 4 to 6 inch left-right thrashing. The digital display is invisible when looking down on the radio from above. This would be for example when the radio is on a table or night stand and you are in the seated position. The radio must be tilted back or you must look at the display from below for the digits to appear. The radio has a multitude of slide switches which are notorious for going open or intermittent. But the main disappointment is the tuning scheme used in the SSB mode. To hit the correct beat note, there is a thumb wheel on the side of the radio that provides a frequency offset. The problem is that the adjustment or rotation range is about plus and minus 5 KHz which is very course. This makes fine adjustment of the LSB or USB pitch very difficult. The range of the thumb wheel should have been plus or minus 1 KHz rather than 5 KHz. All in all, the radio is just awkward to use. You wouldn't want it on your night stand in the dark as the dial light is very dim and useless. Put your money into something with better engineering such as the AOR.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Poor design effort", "unixReviewTime": 1261958400, "reviewTime": "12 28, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "ASV9D219FMN9K", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Shirley Murphy \"Earthelph\"", "helpful": [252, 290], "reviewText": "I loved this radio at first.  It has a lot of bells and whistles and appears to be a quality radio.  The earlier model lasted 20 years so when it finally gave out I purchased this model with the expectation that it would have a fair lifespan.  It was treated with kid gloves sitting on my bedside stand in an airconditioned house and used for about one hour a day.  After two years (one year after the warranty ran out) I tried to turn it on and found that keys were locked and 00:00 was flashing.  I did everything the manual advised and then tried the Sony online chat.  I was advised that it needed to be sent in for service.  Then I tried email.  They came to the same conclusion and added the link for service.  No repair was available but they offered an exchange for a reconditioned radio at the cost of $120 plus tax and shipping.  That is nearly the cost of a new radio!  I will never buy another SONY product.If you want an expensive disposable radio with neat features, this is the one for you.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Great Features While They Last", "unixReviewTime": 1153180800, "reviewTime": "07 18, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2UHC0AGPX2WHG", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Spoonbread", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "I bought this to replace a Panasonic RF B33, which had seen sterling service for many years. The bottom line is that it is a great radio. Sound quality is good, construction is rugged, features are second to none in this price range.The only thing stopping me from giving it a 5 are a couple of small useability issues. First, why has the 'alarm' function been renamed 'timer standby memory'? Come on. Why obfuscate setting an alarm. It's not too difficult to work it out, and the manual is ok, but why?? Secondly, battery life is not great, and the backup time while you're changing batteries is not very long (a few minutes). While that's enough to change batteries, if you leave it without batteries for more than a few minutes you loose all the settings. There's no real excuse for that these days.Bottom line is that I highly recommend this radio. Just a couple of tweeks from Sony would make it perfect.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "A great radio, let down by a couple of small flaws", "unixReviewTime": 1141084800, "reviewTime": "02 28, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A301OOJQXCXXO5", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Taylor Harrell \"J.T. Harrell\"", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "My search is finally over for a radio with perfect A.M. reception. I get a lot of the weak stations, and without static.The  sync lock also helps in areas with heavy interference. The battery life is excellent! I made it over a week on one set of batteries! The F.M. and shortwave are also nice. I also like the fact that you can fall asleep to one station and wake to another.This is one of the best portables out there!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Portable With Excellant A.M. Reception And Great Battery Life!", "unixReviewTime": 1128556800, "reviewTime": "10 6, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AJJV9Z17KV6GR", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "Vince the Radioman", "helpful": [50, 52], "reviewText": "The SW7600 has some outstanding features that no other radio in its price class can challenge . Most importantly it has Synchronous tuning which is generally only found on high price professional models .This function allows you to always get a clean locked in signal even on the weakest signals . It has a sleak design and well laid out controls . Lots of memory presets and extras like a line out and ext antenna input and an excellent side band set up  . The sound is excellent when using headphones . My only knock is that the built in speaker is adequate , nothing special . It has past my performance tests in that I can pull in SW and AM stations that are not audible on the equvilant Grundig and Sangean models. Best in its class!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Sony's best buy !!!", "unixReviewTime": 1066953600, "reviewTime": "10 24, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A2XPDQ3CMATK67", "asin": "B00006IS4X", "reviewerName": "William H III", "helpful": [149, 153], "reviewText": "It's unclear when it all began - somewhere in the last couple of decades, the quality worldband radio receiver slowly faded away. The great names on the shortwave units of yesteryear are now either slapping their badges on drugstore-discount South Asian made devices, or have stopped making radios altogether. The solid metal, the dials and switches, the detailed engineering, all drifted away and replaced with toy-grade plastic, fewer features, and \"let's see how cheap we can build it\" design. With the exception of one -At first glance, you know right away that the made-in-Japan Sony ICF-SW7600GR is definitely not available at your corner shoppe, much less your local electronics store - the interface consists of 27 buttons, 5 switches, and 3 knobs. There are two clocks and two alarms. There's two output jacks (headphone, line out) right next to the antenna jack. The whip antenna is nearly a full yard in length. Serious, indeed. But as intimidating as it all seems at first, the flowchart-logical layout is very efficient, and anyone who's ever wished their radio had something more than just a Stereo-Mono switch to get a weak signal is accommodated in more ways than one.The seriousness continues when you pick up the 7600GR. Though it's considered a \"coat pocket\" portable, it feels as though it's filled with concrete or perhaps lead shot. If weight is a sign of quality, the 7600GR makes itself unabashedly clear, weighing in at just over 15 iPod Nanos (1 and 1/3 pounds). The positive-click buttons would be at home in a luxury car, the knobs turn smoothly, and switches move confidently into position. Nothing is loose or rattles, everything is buttoned-down and solid. You could say it feels German, but they stopped making portable radios long ago...Yet all the forethought and engineering that went into the exterior is just the prelude to what's on the inside. This would still be a top-tier portable just on it's receiver components alone, but Sony goes a step further, piling on the professional tuning features (one of which, the Synchronous Detector, is not found on portables from any other manufacturer). The 7600GR is a veritable box of solutions to the all-too-common radio reception problems; the \"This weak station is being drowned out by a powerful station\" problem, the \"This station is almost clear except for a weak station in the background\" problem, the \"How can I get rid of this high-pitched interference\" problem, etc. Without getting too technical, this is a very sensitive receiver on its own, and should reception fall short, there's a barrage of trick electronic tuning tools to try out.Of course no radio is perfect, and the 7600GR isn't immune. There's no knob for tuning, which is all done by buttons. The case is too small for high-fidelity sound from the speaker. The backlight is for the display only, not the buttons. But this is all nitpicking in light of pure tuner power; You won't miss the tuning knob when you get that one near-impossible station that no other radio you've tried can get.If you browse around the internet for 7600GR reviews from experienced radio technicians, you'll find that they essentially come in two categories: the first is \"I kept having problem x with radio y, so I just went and got a 7600GR\" and the second is \"I spent more on my radio rig than I did my car, so when I needed a portable I got a 7600GR.\" There aren't any lengthy tirades about technical issues or design failures, just page after page of happy owners, sharing their techniques and experiences. Another Amazon reviewer noted that the Sony is the \"Best shortwave radio under $200\", but this is really selling it short - portable shortwave radios only go up to about $200, and (not counting used units) there aren't any more until you reach the very technical world of tabletop receivers starting at $500. So in reality, *This is the best shortwave radio under $500.*The key to the 7600GR's success is time. The original ICF-SW7600 was introduced way back in 1977, and since then has gone through a miasma of subtle design changes and technical innovations. So as other manufacturers try to find cheaper ways to produce their all-new models, Sony has been slowly honing and refining this single design all along for over 25 years. You can be confident when you hold the 7600GR that it's the time-tested culmination of over a quarter century of engineering and design. Five stars for Sony's instant classic.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Last Serious Radio", "unixReviewTime": 1175126400, "reviewTime": "03 29, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3U7HS3TEX6B90", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer \"fyngyrz\"", "helpful": [44, 46], "reviewText": "Lenses are funny things. We'll spend hundreds, sometimes thousands of dollars for a lens. Bokeh, the widest possible aperture, reputed clarity of the glass - those things that affect the picture - have to be measured against the impact to our wallets. We'll cough up for AF, IS, even cool stuff like catadioptrics or telephotos so long we look like anteaters carrying them around. Sometimes it gets to the point where we think we *have* to spend a lot of money, lenses are so cool.And yes, I've spent the big money for lenses; I don't like doing it, but sometimes, it seems like to get the features you want, you just have to.This lens taught me something. Maybe you *don't* have to. I'll tell you why.I bought a new camera. An EOS 40D. A great camera for me, does the things I like, and does them well. My first Canon, though, I had no lenses. So I thought long and hard about what lens to get first. I ended up buying a macro lens, about $500 out of pocket by the time it was shipped to me. A great lens, and you bet I got some great macro shots. But it was a *macro* lens, and you know it was only a few days before I was pining to shoot some \"regular\" images. I looked at all manner of lenses, and the choices were just too much. I ended up unable to decide on anything.So... then I saw this. $73? What the heck, let me get this and I'll have something to play with until I can decide among the many others that were seriously vying for my attention.And THEN... then I received the lens. Now I don't feel what it was that attracted me to the more expensive lenses. That's how good this baby is. It's true, it doesn't have as many blades as a higher end lens and so your background blur - bokeh - is a little bit polygonal instead of nice round blurs; but frankly, I consider that to be nit picking in the extreme. Look at the beautiful samples people have uploaded here, actual results, and you can see that it will do a great job of isolating foreground objects. The bokeh is fine unless you're in some kind of pro competition or you are so finicky about your photos you sit in front of your prints all night, twisting your hands like someone who's had too much coffee.Plus, this thing is really, really sharp. Give it the best chance - lots of light, tripod mount, fast shutter speed - and you'll be rewarded with pixel level detail, or at least as much as the optical low pass filter in your camera lets through to your sensor if you're shooting digital. I was *astonished* at the clarity, the EOS 40D's 10 mp sensor would surely find any glass problems, but... nothing. It makes perfect pictures. The AF works precisely, so that using center point only on my 40D, I was able to resolve exact details on many subjects using nothing but the AF. This is *not* typical behavior for an inexpensive lens.Speed: It's pretty quick, all right, especially if you're willing to sacrifice some depth of field. Canon's got an f/1.2 in the L series for about 20 times the price if this really isn't quick enough. Though I suspect that most of you, like me, look at lenses priced well above $1000 and quickly find other things we want to buy instead. Like a whole new camera! With this lens, you can literally shoot decent space photos on a high-megapixel camera just by setting the lens to wide open aperture, laying your camera on its back, and using a good fast ISO setting. There's a good example of this in the gallery. I tried it for myself, and it worked great (by the way, see if you can find a moment to rate that photo up... it's a terrific example of what the lens can do!) Frankly, that's something only a really fast lens can pull off, at least, in my experience - because if you keep the shutter open too long, you'll have star trails instead of points.Features: It's a basic lens. It just works. Which is just what we want, of course. But that's not to say it doesn't bring some features to the table.It's good from about one and a half feet out to infinity; it's autofocus, but you can't touch the focus ring while it is driving it - it isn't a full time manual focus design. There's a switch for manual / AF mode in the usual place. One thing I appreciated was the red alignment dot being a physical nub instead of just being silk-screened on (or inside!) the lens - I change lenses around often, and I really eyeball those dots a lot to save wear and tear on the camera. You get both the lens covers you need, one for the business end and one for the camera end (for when it isn't mounted on the camera.) It uses 52 mm filters, and the threading is well machined, I had no trouble at all attaching and removing filters. It takes the ES-62 hood, which is not included. The lens system itself is five groups of six elements for f/1.8 - they didn't just throw it together.Now, as to build. Yes, the barrel is plastic. Plastic is not a dirty word, though, really - it can be quite durable, with the right plastic in the right application.The lens feels fine, not \"cheap\" at all. I mean this in the sense that the lens fits the camera well, and there are no funny noises or other warning signs of less than sufficient design.It *is* plastic, and one thing about that is that the lens is very light weight for what it does, and that makes longer shooting sessions more pleasant. I can tell you that my physically much larger macro lens tires me out in just a few minutes; this lens doesn't do that, it's almost like it weighs nothing - it's only 4.6 ounces, all of it physically close to the camera so it doesn't exert much leverage on your wrists.Here's an issue you can, and should, sink your teeth into: When focusing, the lens physically extends, and that is a difference between a more expensive lens and this one that can really matter. This is because it affects how you can use the lens. It is something you should, no, you *must*, keep in mind when using this lens. I'll explain.Actually, I would speculate that of the people who managed to destroy this lens in short order, I bet at least some of them physically had the business end of the lens resting on something, or were holding onto the focusing ring when the AF system tried to drive the lens to a new physical configuration, and poof - the gear train, or the motor, or both, went nipples north.You just can't do that - not with *any* lens that extends physically. Don't touch, or rest, the focus ring on this lens in AF mode, EVER! If you watch out for that one issue when you use it, just keep the lens free in the air and your fingers off the ring, I bet the lens will last years.Why so confident? Simple: Based on the incredible track record Canon has for its camera and lens product lines, I think we can very safely say that Canon knows precisely what they are doing, generally speaking. They're not fools, I think we can all agree.With that in mind, simply consider that Canon has placed a full one year warranty on the lens. Frankly, I don't believe they would do that if it was truly going to fall apart in a few months when used properly, as some of the less positive reviews here have said. Treat it right, it'll almost certainly treat you right. This is *Canon*, people, not the Wang Chung Junque Manufacturing Co. operating out of a cave somewhere.In the end, even if mine did break, I'd replace it in a heartbeat. It is a truly great lens for the money. Highly recommended.*** I've added an image to the image gallery that is a CLIP of a small portion of an image shot of the night sky. In it, you can clearly see the great nebula in Andromeda. I've identified the individual stars for you, and you can see the entire image by checking my flickr account (fyngyrz). When I saw what I had captured with this modestly priced lens, my jaw nearly hit the floor. Is this lens sharp? Unbelievably so, and here's stone proof of it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "More than I bargained for. Seriously.", "unixReviewTime": 1194134400, "reviewTime": "11 4, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2F0Z8Y0QN29UF", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer", "helpful": [14, 16], "reviewText": "This is an incredibly sharp lens.  It's a little soft at 1.8, but anything above that is excellent.  Shooting indoor shots without a flash is a joy.  Biggest problems-slow focus and a 5 blade aperture.  The slow focus can be a problem, since the huge aperture and generally short distance to the subject makes for a very small focal plane-inches in some cases.  The five blade aperture means highlights and bokeh have a distinct pentagonal shape.  Still, this is the lens that lives on my camera (Digital Rebel XT).", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Incredible value for the money", "unixReviewTime": 1127347200, "reviewTime": "09 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A356JAJSFPFB5P", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "Baivab Mitra \"Save a tree, one at a time\"", "helpful": [10, 14], "reviewText": "This is more tuned towards the professional, however I feel it's good to add my 2 cents, esp. when there are reviews comparing the 1.4 to this - 1.8Some basics first - 1.4 is much costlier than 1.8 about 5 to 7 times.Next, lens constuction is 7/6 for 1.4 and 6/5 for 1.8 (elements/group). I'll cover the importance of this later.Build quality - 1.4 is way above in terms of build quality.IMPORTANT difference - 1.8 doesn't have manual focusing, 1.4 - yes.- wide-open apertures, vignetting is more marked in 1.8.- The color-tone in 1.4 is slightly better than 1.8- Bokeh is much more visually appealing than 1.8.Basically, in when using DOF to an advantage to highlight the focus-point, 1.4 produces much more visually applealing photos as the color tone of the out-of-focus regions are more appealing and the bokeh is also more rounded than it's sibling - 1.8 (primarily due to the larger number of lens elements)If you're primarily buying your FIRST prime lens and you wish to LEARN to use it without much attention to detail of the photograph (from a professional perspective as a possible seller photo) then I would recommend to first buy a 1.8 - learn to use it, get exposure/composition/etc. correct and then buy 1.4 or even better the BEST lens in the world of CANON - the famous L-series 1.2 (about 1200$)", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Important factors to consider", "unixReviewTime": 1180310400, "reviewTime": "05 28, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A27PAM7QENRBGH", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "Bob \"Bob\"", "helpful": [18, 18], "reviewText": "I read the reviews and bought this lens.  They were quite accurate.  It takes GREAT pictures AND is also fragile.  I went to a wedding recently and was told not to use a flash during the ceremony (using ISO 400).  I used this lens with my Canon digital SLR and got many great, clear shots of the ceremony without using a flash.  I could never have done that with my other lenses.  While changing lenses, this small 50 mm lens slipped out of my hand and dropped only about 18 inches and hit the carpeted church floor.  It broke in half (the entire inner portion of the lens broke out).  I immediately thought of the other reviews (LOL).  I did get another one because I like it so much.  I suggest you buy it, but DON'T bump it!", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Yes it's fragile", "unixReviewTime": 1165017600, "reviewTime": "12 2, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A4WEZJOIZIV4U", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "Chuck Bittner \"Disabled comedian & gamer!\"", "helpful": [17, 21], "reviewText": "I love this lens it isn't the best build quality and has no zoom but it's \"fast\" it is worth 100.00 a must have lens i feel. Once you shoot picture in f1.8 you'll love it but you gonna then want theCanon EF 50mm f/1.4 USM Standard & Medium Telephoto Lens for Canon SLR CamerasIt is just a way better lens and more expensive but so nice.if your a newbie here's some infoA lens is \"fast\" when it has a low f-stop... ok so when you have a smaller number the apature is bigger which allows more light through, so this means you can up the shutter speed. and still have enough light reach the sensor.ok so lets say you have an out door shot if you have say an f/4 lens the shutter speed could be 1/250 of a second and you would get a good exposer. Now this lens can only go f/4but if you in the same outdoor setting, had an f/2.8 lens you could jump to 1/500 of a second and get the same exposer. and freeze the action mmore effectivly, this i believe is why it's a \"fast\" lens.ok have fun and get it done", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great fast cheap lens.... Cheap is key BUY this if you're new to DSLR", "unixReviewTime": 1133913600, "reviewTime": "12 7, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3MWDWYZFV3DCL", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "C. W. Hacker", "helpful": [27, 30], "reviewText": "This review is lengthy, detailed, and honest, but it reflects my personal experience which will likely differ greatly from your own, so keep that in mind. This review is geared towards budget minded people (I am a university student after all) with 1.6x crop-sensor cameras, e.g. Rebel, XT, 20D, 30D, etc. who probably started out with the kit lens and now have outgrown it.This is an optically excellent lens at a truly bargain price. Particularly if you are going to this straight from the kit lens, you will be amazed and even shocked at the quality of the images this lens can produce compared to the kit lens.Low-light performance is excellent, with the large aperture (still incredibly sharp wide open) allowing wonderful low light flash-free photography which will greatly impress you, your friends, and your family after you photograph people candidly at your next gathering.This brings me to the focal length limitation. For what I just described, candid low-light photography at a party or other gathering, as well as candid shots of children and pets, this lens excels because on a 1.6 crop camera (such as the Digital Rebel series, which I imagine most people who buy this lens have) this equals approximately an 85mm lens in 35mm film camera terms. This is a classic portrait focal length, and so naturally it is perfect for candid portraits (as well as posed ones, of course) because it lets you get pretty close to people without sticking the camera in their face, as well as providing pleasing out of focus backgrounds with very sharp subjects. Canon also makes an 85mm f/1.8 lens which people who own the more expensive full-frame cameras love for the same reasons those of us with the 1.6 cameras love this one, because the focal length and large aperture are perfect for the sort of photography I've just described.It's not that it has no use besides that, though; I've taken many landscape and cityscape photos with this lens that are wonderful. But usually, I feel very closed in by the long focal length. If you're a long distance away from your subject, this lens can often be great for landscape and nature photography, but eventually you'll be longing for a wider field of view and will at least be tempted to go back to the kit lens for many shots, and for some you will absolutely need it.And this is its biggest problem, which is the flip side of this being a great lens for low-light social gatherings - even if you only use this lens for low light situations, you will feel like you need a wider field of view at least half of the time. To get a group shot of four or five people with this lens in a small house, I literally had to shoot from across the next room through the door, and that still wasn't quite wide enough. My only other option was to use the kit lens, which with its f/3.5 maximum at the widest focal length is just not usable for most low-light situations without a tripod or flash, so I had no choice.To reiterate, it is very likely that if you aren't already spending a lot of money on your camera and lens collection, you will really feel the limitation of not having a wide enough field of view for a lot of your photography. Depending on your style and what you mainly shoot, you could easily get very frustrated with this lens despite its strengths.The other thing that is likely if you're upgrading to this from the kit lens is that you will get addicted to the insane increase in picture quality and low-light usability and will not ever want to use the kit lens again, which means you'll need another higher quality lens that gives you a wider field of view. I used this lens more or less exclusively for about three months, became frustrated at not having a wider field of view, and ended up buying the $350 Sigma 30mm f/1.4 for its \"normal\" ~50mm equivalent on my 1.6 crop camera, and for its large aperture. That lens is great, by the way, and I wholly recommend it instead of this 50mm lens if you've got the money. You do lose the advantages of the 50mm's long reach for portrait situations, but in general you can make up for this by getting closer to the subject, which admittedly is not always possible. Solution? Get both ;)Ultimate advice? If you've only got the kit lens and maybe a cheap telephoto zoom and you really don't want to or simply can't spend money on more expensive lenses in the near future, don't get this lens yet. Save your money up for a more versatile (and still optically excellent) lens in the $300-400 range, namely the \"standard digital zooms\" offered by Sigma, Tamron, and Tokina in that price range. I am currently saving up for one of these (probably the Sigma 17-70, the least expensive of them, since the advantages of the others are covered by the 30mm and 50mm lenses).If you crave the low-light performance (which was what attracted me), and you really don't feel like you can spend $300 or more for something like the Sigma 30mm f/1.4, then go for it, but don't say I didn't warn you. You'll be craving more expensive lenses in no time.Another disadvantage that you won't notice too much unless/until you have more expensive lenses is the build quality. In terms of durability I'd say this lens is great and it will hold up to normal abuse, but it definitely feels like a plastic toy, the manual focus ring is only marginally better than the one on the kit lens (which is a joke), and if you care about this sort of thing, it looks a little awkward on the camera (I have the Rebel XT). It is the same size as the 50mm lens for my 1978 Canon A1, but since the body styling on these new cameras is so different from the classic camera body style this size and shape looks a little silly. It's purely a cosmetic concern, but don't be surprised if you feel a little self-conscious about using it in public (this won't stop you from using it, of course, because you'll know that the silly look of the lens has no bearing on the outstanding results you get).Finally, the autofocus motor is a little noisy, but if you're used to the kit lens you won't mind it because it's only slightly louder than that (just wait until you're spoiled by the silent and super fast ultrasonic motors on the more expensive lenses, though...) The focus accuracy is excellent, even in low light, but there's no avoiding that it will occasionally have to hunt for focus in very low light and while this is extremely annoying, there's really not much you can do about it even with the more expensive lenses and cameras.Overall - it is hard not to recommend this lens, but only if you get it knowing its limitations ahead of time and you are ok with it, and accept that it will probably make you want more expensive lenses to go along with it.Again - for the things it is best for (portraits and candids, kids, etc., though of course you can do a lot of creative things with it), you can't do better than this lens, especially on a budget (but, this lens compares extremely well with the much more expensive similar lenses!) What it absolutely is not, though, is a \"walk-around\", general all-purpose lens that you can leave on your camera most of the time like in the film days when most people just had the 50mm f/1.8 lens that came with their camera and never took it off. The Sigma 30mm f/1.4 I mentioned fits that bill perfectly, if that's what you're looking for.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great inexpensive portrait lens, but must realize focal length limitation on 1.6 crop cameras", "unixReviewTime": 1170288000, "reviewTime": "02 1, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1KMA4IW87NMNT", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "Cypress Texas", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "I got my new EF 50mm 1.8 II yesterday.  Some people have reported that this is a cheap plastic lens and the quality was not any good.  I paid $75 for it off Amazon.com (delivered).  Although it is made of plastic, I find that it will probably not \"fall apart in your hands\" as some others have suggested.  My only issue with this lens is that the Manual / AF switch was a bit difficult to slide.  The lens seems to take very clear pictures and the boken seems to be very good.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Very sharp lens", "unixReviewTime": 1147219200, "reviewTime": "05 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3414D1LX5IQGO", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "Genobambino", "helpful": [43, 49], "reviewText": "Unless you already have a top-quality fixed lens around this length (and Canon makes no L-series in 50mm) I can't understand why you don't own this.  It's so cheap.  It's fast and sharp.Eventually, every photographer needs a fixed lens at somewhere around this focal range.  I favor zooms for telephoto: it's hard to quickly shuffle on foot between a 70mm and 300mm focal range.  I also like zooms for wide angle: you can grab a big landscape or group shot, then a person in close-up, all of which makes a wide-angle zoom a good \"walkaround\" lens, especially for travelers.  The \"middle range\" between, say, 35mm and 100mm is portrait-range, and a great opportunity for the extra precision and handiness of a prime lens.Prime lenses usually generate better images at every price point, and the EF 50mm f/1.8 II is no exception.  In fact, on a ratio of image quality to price, this lens may be unmatched.  Images are sharp and have nice contrast and color.  At faster speed, indoor shots without flash are easily possible at reasonable lighting levels.  This is crucial for those of us without high-end flashes and who rightly abhor built-in flashes, or flashes in general.  The speed (and, again, the clarity) of this lens makes it an obscene bargain.  See the peachfuzz on your baby's cheek?  Get it; no flash.  It's also disposable: you can take greater risks because replacement costs are relatively low.Buy this, at least as a holdover, until you get L-series glass for your portrait range prime lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Until the Real Thing Comes Along", "unixReviewTime": 1151798400, "reviewTime": "07 2, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AU5U16YWAIYZP", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "Grant Brummett", "helpful": [87, 96], "reviewText": "Pros:Small SizeLow PriceLight WeightNice BokehOk at F/1.8Better at F/2.2 F/2.5 F/2.8Sharp as most lens at F3.2 and still blurs the background wellNatural light photography sharper at F1.8 then the Kit lens at any settingGreat portrait lens on cropped 1.6 cameras like the Rebel XtiCons:Slow FocusPoor low light auto focusPoor motion tracking auto focusCheap plastic constructionFlash performance much worse then the 18-55 Kit lensNo Lens HoodActual use and thoughts:I bought this lens because I wanted to take sharper clearer photos then the kit lens until I can afford another L lens and because I wanted to shoot using natural light inside churches while photographing wedding portraits.Is it sharper then the Kit 18-55 lens? In natural light shots you bet!!I did some tripod mounted tests at different F stops and it's sharper at F1.8 then the kit lens is at any setting at any focal length.  However!!  You do not want to use flash with this lens.  I know I know you buy this lens to take natural light photography. But I flipped up the flash on my Rebel Xti to add light when my daughter wanted the lights out to blow out the candles on her birthday cake. The results where terrible!!  There was glare on all reflective materials and highlight over exposure.  Plus when trying to  focus on moving subjects in candle light you had better be ready to switch to manual focus.I found out that this lens is an old design and does not support E-TTL II flash photography and does not have the coatings the newer designed for digital photography anti-glare coatings or distance flash distance measurement system. What does all that mean for the person who bought this for natural light photography?  Nothing, it doesn't detract at all just know that the flash photography will not be anywhere near as good as that of the kit lens or any of the newer lens.Now, on to the good, this lens is great at natural light portrait photography on the cropped 1.6 Digital Rebel Body!!! On this camera it's now a 80mm lens, perfect for Portrait, with very nice Bokeh and good contrast.  Great for low light when you have to get a shot like this with no flash.On the other hand, it's not much good for anything else.  This field of view is too narrow with a cropped sensor for getting the entire scene and if you want their entire body you really have to back up.  It's also too narrow for scenic shots where you want people in the foreground and great wide scenic shots of places like the Grand Canyon where you would need something like 17 - 24mm.  It's also too short to be a telephoto lens.  Why do I mention this?  Because you will surly want a good zoom lens in addition to this lens Do NOT buy this as your only lens.  Buy it as a backup to a good zoom for when you need low light great Portrait or both.  Also know that you will be switching between the two during a shoot to get good portrait and wider angle shots.  In fact if you find yourself in a situation where you need to be versatile do NOT put this lens on your camera, it is not very versatile.  What do I mean by versatile?  Situations where you need to change angle of view or switch from natural to flash photography quickly.  Or shots where there is a lot of movement causing you to refocus your shot quickly.Bottom Line:  If you are cash strapped and want a great natural light Portrait lens to go with your Canon Digital Rebel then go with this lens.  If you have a little more money then you should go for the F/1.4 50mm lens which focuses faster has better build quality etc. and does the same job just better.If you can only afford just one do it all lens in this price range do NOT get this lens, get the 18-55mm kit lens  It's not as sharp in natural light but is all around a much more versatile lens and produces much better  flash photos.If you can afford $200 buy this 50mm F/1.8 lens and the 18-55 kit lens and use them together as a team.In closing over all I am pleased with the F/1.8 50MM lens when using it as a natural light portrait lens, but it's not as versatile as I thought it would be and I wonder if I should have saved up my money and waited to get the 50MM  F/1.4  lens which is a much better lens over all even if it does cost more then 3 time as much.  Now however I am hearing that the F/1.4 is having reliability problems with the auto focus and manual focus.  When shooting a wedding I can not use a lens I can not rely on.  I can rely on the F/1.8 to see me through and even afford a backup just in case I drop it again.3-28-2008 UpdateI now own the expensive and heavy Canon 85mm F/1.2 L II and Canon 135mm F/2 L lens for portraits and of course they blow this poor 50mm away.  But I still have a soft spot in my heart for this lens and for those on a budget or for those who are taking this lens into areas where you would not want to take an expensive lens I still heartily recommend the Canon 50mm F/1.8 II lens for the price it takes fantastic photos!Filter Update 3/28/2008After much searching I found the perfect filter. The Hoya Multi Coat HMC Pro1 Protection filter is not supposed to filter the shot just protect the front lens element. I was very worried that it would affect the shot after having tried some other premium filters like the B+W UV which caused the photos to be softer and duller. However, after some tests I found that in some weird way the Hoya Multi Coat HMC Pro1 actually makes the photos seem to have just a little more contrast and be a little sharper then without. I thought I had gotten the test shots backwards and had to retest with a little sign in the photo saying with and without filter in place just to make sure. Really amazing!!! I'm sold!7-4-2008 Update:My love of this lens continues.  Not long ago I took another short motorcycle ride with some friends and didn't want to risk my more expensive lens and camera.  So, I took my Canon Rebel XTi and 50mm F/1.8 lens.  I had forgotten just how great this little lens is.  You can take nice portraits with decent bokeh (some shots it's really good, but points of light show the 5 aperture blades producing 5 sided points of light).  You can vary the shot with F/1.8 giving you a creamy white super soft effect for the women and F/2.5 giving you less Bokeh but the sharpness you need for detail shots and male portraits.  The big plus for me as well is the weight. This is a combo you can carry all day long without killing your back and arms.At this low price how can you NOT own this lens?01-03-2009 Canon 5D Mark II Update:This lens which was pretty decent on the 40D and Rebel XTi comes completely apart on the 5D Mark II. No surprise since it's only $89. I guess the surprise was how well it works on a Canon 40D and Rebel XTi.If you have a cropped sensor camera I still recommend for the reasons listed in my review.  If you are using a full frame sensor camera like the 5D Mark II look elsewhere.Lenses I currently own:Canon EF-S 17-55 F/2.8 IS Zoom Lens Ultra sharp, great colors, great low light, poor zoom actionCanon EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 Rebel XTi Kit Zoom lens Muddy, slow, pile of junkCanon EF 17-40mm f/4 L Zoom Lens Fantastic colors, sharp zoomed 17 to 24mm and stopped down, ultra smooth zoom action, light weightCanon EF 24-70mm f/2.8 L Zoom Lens Fantastic colors and contrast, sharp zoomed 40 to 70mm, zoom a little stiff at first, heavy, repair prone!Canon EF 50mm f/1.8 II Good budget portrait lens, light weight, disposable, sharp from F/2.5Canon EF 85mm F/1.2 L II The best portrait lens for female and children clients, buttery smooth Bokeh, heavy and expensive it shares sharpness with 135mmCanon EF 135mm F/2.0 L The best portrait lens for males and tied with Canon 85mm F 1/.2 for sharpest lens I own, buttery smooth BokehCanon EF 70-200mm f/2.8 L Zoom Lens Fantastic colors, sharp for a zoom, very versatile ego boosting and attention getting and heavy! My favorite zoom lens that I own!!!Canon EF 100-400mm f4.5-5.6L IS Zoom Lens super colors, sharp for a zoom, extremely versatile, variable Bokeh can be great or bad, even more ego boosting and attention getting when extended and 400mm reach!!My next lens purchase I'm saving for right now: 'Canon EF 300mm F/2.8 IS L the finest lens ever", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "What a great lens, especially for the price, super Sharp at F2.5!", "unixReviewTime": 1187136000, "reviewTime": "08 15, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A242IFN64X6R4E", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "Grumple Dumple", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "Even though I have the more expensive 50mm 1.4, I can't deny that the 1.8 has the ability to produce high-quality results.I have taken as many \"satisfying\" pictures with this lens as I have with the 1.4! I mean that literally! It has rendered many sharp and colorful pictures!Also, I know that the build quality has been condemned universally, but for some reason I don't think the build-quality is all \"that\" bad.Obviously, for the price, anyone who has a EOS 20D or Rebel XT (both of which I own) or a contemporary Canon 35mm film camera should own one of these!I love and recommend this lens!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "For The Price Everyone Ought To Own One!", "unixReviewTime": 1123718400, "reviewTime": "08 11, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A16MLF6AHD5FXB", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "Joel Jenkins \"unculturedswine\"", "helpful": [18, 20], "reviewText": "I LOVE THIS LENS. It is hands down the best value you can get. I am amazed at how sharp the images turn out with this, much sharper than the 18-55 Kit lens and for me was way better than the 28-105 3.5-4.5 USM II that I bought, and returned.Colors are great, the 1.8 for indoor photography is awesome and the higher you set the aperture the better it gets. I love this lens. If you spent your $1000+ on a Canon Digital SLR you'd be nuts to not spend another $70 and pick this up. Going out and shooting pictures is a blast, but the icing on the cake is when you get home and they turned out how you imagined. This lens will do that for you. I shoot with a 20D.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Fabulous Lens for the money", "unixReviewTime": 1143158400, "reviewTime": "03 24, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A23VGBG17K5NJ3", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "John Nolley II", "helpful": [38, 43], "reviewText": "When I first made the switchover to SLR photography from point & shoot, I debated over several lenses to accompany the camera's kit lens.  The EF 50mm f/1.8 lens is often described as a \"must have\" lens for new photographers, so I gave it a shot.  I must say, I've been very pleased.Pros:f/1.8 Aperature:This lens is \"fast\" in that it has a very wide maximum aperature (f/1.8), meaning it lets through more light and can thus take photos with a faster shutter speed than a \"slower\" lens.  A wide aperature also allows for very shallow depth-of-field (and thus a lot of background blur).Because of the wide aperature, the lens is useful both for lower-light conditions--allowing you to still shoot at fast enough shutter speeds to permit handholding and often without having to add a flash--and for portraiture in well-lighted conditions, in which the background will be blurred.Cost:How many lenses of reasonable quality can you find for under $100?Cons:Focal Length on Digital SLRs:For the digital SLR user, unless you're using a full-frame camera, the crop factor of the APS-C sized sensor will make this lens more in the range of 80mm and thus a medium telephoto rather than the \"normal view\" 50mm that many film shooters are expecting--so keep that in mind.Autofocus:The autofocus is not Canon's USM system and is thus a bit slow and noisy, and it requires the use of a small switch to change over to manual focus (no full-time manual focus).  Sometimes, the lens seems to \"stick\" in manual focus after being switched there and then back to auto, requiring a dismounting and remounting of the lens to get it working right again.Minimum Focusing Length:This is not a macro lens and thus cannot focus at extremely close range, although I've successfully used it as such with the \"poor man's macro\" screw-on magnifying lenses.  The loss of quality in doing so has not been a problem for me, anyway.Build Quality:Make no mistake--the lens' cheap price is reflected somewhat in its build quality, although the optics themselves seem to be fairly good.  The lens may feel \"cheap,\" and probably would break if dropped, but at the price, one could easily afford to replace it.Summary:Overall, I'm quite pleased with this lens and am glad to have purchased it.  I tend to use it for pet and human portraiture and have also used it in a pinch for macro photography of flowers and in low-light conditions indoors.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A Lens for (Nearly) Everyone", "unixReviewTime": 1140998400, "reviewTime": "02 27, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1V5B0JGFSOXD4", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "Jonathan Payne", "helpful": [19, 21], "reviewText": "I bought it because it's fast (F/1.8) and cheap. It turns out it's also very simple to use because you can't even fiddle with the zoom since it has no zoom!So armed with this lens and an indoor performance, I took a bunch of pictures, one-handed, on my Digital Rebel XT, and I ended up with some of the nicest pictures (indoor or out) that I have ever taken:[...]%20CNY%20Performance%202006/Most of the pictures are very sharp, none of the pictures were taken with a flash.The only problem is 50mm is really 80mm if you use a digital SLR with the typical 1.6 multiplication factor. So it's no good for some situations. I think I will have to get another more wide-angle lens that's also nice and quick to cover all the bases.Remember - a fixed focal length lens will tend to be very sharp and much quicker because it's a simpler lens. Boy was I blown away by this one.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "takes some great photos, can't beat the price", "unixReviewTime": 1139961600, "reviewTime": "02 15, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1RMX8OHTVW0MJ", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "J. Yeh", "helpful": [11, 13], "reviewText": "What can I say about this lens?  Well......Let me say this.  Ever since I bought this lens, this is the only lens I use for the portrait shots.So easy to use. The only thing you have to do is to change the aperture per number of people.  Remember, it's pretty much wide open and at 50mm fix focal length, so, when you shoot more than two people, even if they stand back to back, one of them will be much blurry.  Here's what my experience told me:1.8: 1 person2.0: 2 people side by side2.5: 2 people back to back2.8: 3-5 peopleYou don't really have to buy the 50mm f/1.4.  This lens will do the same job.  The only thing you won't like is the lack of USM and makes this lens a bit noisy.  Other than this, this is perfect.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Just buy it.  $70 and you'll love it.", "unixReviewTime": 1141948800, "reviewTime": "03 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2JE071UW97J2A", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "Kenneth Depree", "helpful": [22, 29], "reviewText": "I bought this lens specifically because I had an opportunity to attend my first boxing event and needed a fast, low-light lens. This lens was highly recommended.  When I received lens I took a few test shots and discovered the lens not as sharp as I had expected based on the comments in the evaluations.  The kit lens on my Canon T2i was much sharper.Several days after lens arrived I attended the event.  Still in the first round of the first match, camera in the continuous shooting mode, I got a notice saying communication problem between lens and camera, clean the lens contacts. I removed the lens, wiped off the contacts, assembled camera and lens and resumed shooting.  Almost immediately another notice and another cleaning.  One more notice and cleaning and the camera stopped working.  My only solution was to use the kit lens and the result, as I feared, is no useful shots.  Everything is pitch black as though the event was taking place at midnight on a very dark night.The photos that I managed to take with the 50mm before it stopped working aren't bad.  Because I was trying to shoot at 400 or 500 to stop the action in limited light, they are somewhat dark but this can be corrected in Photoshop Elements.  There is also some blurriness of the sort I experienced with the first test shots, but I attribute this to a defect in this lens. What I am saying is that this lens seems to have been a good choice for my purpose, but because it was defective I am giving this lens only 1 star.Lens is being returned to Amazon.I have ordered a lot from Amazon over the years and always read the evaluations first.  Invariably, no matter how many 4 and 5 star ratings are given a product, there are at least a couple from people disappointed because product was defective.  This seems to have been my turn to be one of those people.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Apparently My Turn To Get A Lemon", "unixReviewTime": 1290297600, "reviewTime": "11 21, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A1W5SO5D1C13RC", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "Mark Kitaoka", "helpful": [43, 48], "reviewText": "I've been shooting seriously for about a year now and a friend of mine had been trying to get me to use his EF 50 1.8.  I shoot quite often in low light conditions and my fastest lens before this purchase was Canon's discontinued EF 28-70 f2.8 L lens.  It's a wonderful lens, albeit a bit heavy, but really sharp.  Not quite fast enough for stage performance work, but it was the fastest lens in my bag.  After borrowing his 50, I was shocked at the plastic housing construction and the tiny focus ring.  All of that bias disappeared as soon as I took some test shots and examined them on my PC.  This lens is a real jewel producing acceptable bokah and color depth.  I find that I use it quite often and the featherweight allows me to keep it in my bag without adding much weight.  In most low light situations, the slight light fall off toward the corners is unnoticeable.  I highly recommend this lens, as on a price performance ratio, it certainly keeps up with the two L series lenses in my bag.  Bravo Canon.  You can view how this lens performs on my blog at [...]", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Canon's 'Thrifty Fifty' Belongs in Every Camera Bag", "unixReviewTime": 1144195200, "reviewTime": "04 5, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AW3PPNT2SYLQW", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "Matthew Lei", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "With this lens it is well known that you'll either get a great sharp copy or a problem copy that is either soft, back focuses or front focuses. Most people get a good copy but this lens seems to have a higher bad rate than others.Anyways, just return it until you get a good one. Once you do get a good one this lens is never coming off your camera. Is has perfect sharpness, even at 1.8. Its a tad slow to focus and is noisy. It feels like a plastic toy from a snack box but dang, it has awesome glass and thats what matters.You're not going to find a lens under $400 that can perform nearly as well as this one does. Its extremely sharp that your eyes will bleed, it has perfect contrast and color. No true canon fan would be without this lens.Due to its awesome 1.8 fstop its great for low light. It can keep your shutter speeds nice and fast to stop motion in very low light. I don't know what I'd do without this lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best lens for the money.", "unixReviewTime": 1145836800, "reviewTime": "04 24, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1ZJ3KU3LJ6TJO", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "MD Boatbum", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "This is a great little lens, with a tragic, ironic flaw. For all its wonderful image quality and ability to gobble up light, its almost completely worthless in even slightly dim lighting due to the TERRIBLE low light focus performance. I've come to think of it as a manual focus lens, its so bad. And without a flash, there is no focus assits lamp. Now I may be the problem here, perhaps there is a way to utilize the focus assist lamp without using the flash? If anyone can correct me on this, PLEASE DO SO!! I'd love to be proven wrong on this as I really love everything else about this lens.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Fantastic image quality, but frustrating.", "unixReviewTime": 1174608000, "reviewTime": "03 23, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2IC5YNF109DXX", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "P. Lehmann", "helpful": [1054, 1089], "reviewText": "Wow! My theory now is that Canon doesn't put this baby as their kit lens because many people would decide that they DONT NEED ANOTHER ONE! And many of them would be right!Like others, I bought the Rebel XT and the 28-135 IS lens. The 28-135 is heavy and priced like a gold brick. I guess it does OK, and I do keep it mounted most of the time.And like others, I stumbled on this lens somehow, read the raving reviews, and for the price figured, \"What the heck?\"This lens in tack sharp. It shows the fire in the colors you photograph. The wide aperture means candles can be excellent lights for portraits. Its narrow field is great.There are pitfalls though. I snapped a pic of my face at arm's length using autofocus a while back and (1) the focus locked on the tip of my nose and my face was already blurring (2) the lens was so sharp that I saw blackheads clearly on my nose tip I can't really see in the mirror (doh!). I've read that dSLR images are slightly soft to aid in later editing. I can only imagine what it would do on a film camera.Yesterday while camping I slapped this lens on. Unlike the 28-135, this one is light enough that I didnt notice I was carrying a camera everywhere. At night I put the lens on the top of the car pointed at the sky, set the shutter for 15 secs, and hit the button. Much to my amazement, the lens not only showed hundreds of stars that were invisible to my eyes, but it also found a galaxy. That pic is on the customer image section of this page. You can see what I saw, but the smaller size doesnt do the lens justice.One quirk of Amazon is that this page keeps alternating pictures of lenses. This lens does not have the distance focus scales on the outside of it.Zoom is nice for many things. But where zoom isnt necessary, performance is very, very nice. Performance at $70 is almost too good to be true.Let me close by repeating what has been said elsewhere and will continue to be said here....IF YOU OWN A SLR, STOP NOW AND GET THIS LENS!UPDATE 12/06 I have owned this lens for about a year now. Over that time I have immersed myself in photography, workshops, books, tests, etc. I have since upgraded to the 30D and a couple of L lenses, and now have a portfolio strong enough that I am now getting dollar signs thrown at me that I didnt even see coming. I say all this to give you some perspective on what I will write afterward.Now that Ive really learned the difference, I can agree with others that it is a tad soft wide open, but that is to be expected. I read a lens test recently that put the 1.8 against Canons heavweight L glass, and, not surprisingly, the L beat out the $70 plastic wonder in most categories. What might surprise you, however, is that when the lens was tested at F 8 it BEAT THE L GLASS in sharpness! As one that has felt the pain of trading large sums of money for L glass, I appreciate affordable quality...not something anyone can plan on seeing much of in photography.My 28-135 has since joined my kit lens in the garage. The 1.8 is still in my case with my newer 30D.With some experience under my belt I now would make the following recommendation. Right now, as you read this,  you may have an idea if you've been bitten by the photog bug. You may know that this beast is going to morph into something more than a simple pasttime. If you look inside the depths of your aspirations and you know that you are going to be a serious amateur, bite the bullet and get the 50mm 1.4. Trust me on this one. Eventually you'll end up getting it anyway, so just apply the $70 to the 1.4 now.If you're just exploring different areas of SLR photography, you cant go wrong with this lens. Case in point- as of this writing the baby in pink in the customer images section of this lens is one of the top-ten rated images of all pics uploaded on Amazon! This lens will allow you to dazzle friends and relatives used to snapshots from point & shoots. It will be the start of what you upgraded to a DSLR for in the first place. For you, the 1.8 is still, by far, the best value in photography!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best Value in Photography!", "unixReviewTime": 1135728000, "reviewTime": "12 28, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A38OCDJQOAQ2XG", "asin": "B00007E7JU", "reviewerName": "P. McGuire", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "This lens is amazing. When I first saw how cheap it was I closed the Amazon webpage thinking it was trash. However, upon talking to my photography friends they all rated the lens very highly. So, I plopped down $79 for the lens after reading all of the reviews.First off, I have a Canon EOS XT and a 40D. The XT came with the 17-55mm and the 40D came with the 28-135mm. When the 50mm arrived from Amazon I went outside to take a few test shots. I was amazed at the picture sharpness and the depth of color in the shots. When I blew up the shots to 100% the sharpness of the image was jaw dropping compared to the kit lenses I'd been using.Sure, the 50mm lens isn't a zoom lens but let me tell you something important: with this lens I learned how to compose shots. Before I'd just take mindless pictures - stand in one place and shoot away. This lens taught me to compose an image to make it interesting because I had to move my feet to get the picture I wanted instead of mindlessly zooming back and forth. I highly recommend this to anyone wanting to become a better photographer.My sister bought my Rebel XT. I'm letting her use my 50mm - she likes it so much that I didn't get it back. &lt;cough> So I bought another 50mm. :)The build quality is not very good however it works. The lens is super light (a plus for a heavy 40D) and it won't break unless you drop the lens (what lens wouldn't?). Otherwise, if you take care of the lens I see this lens lasting a long time. I'll report back here if I find out otherwise.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Amazing Lens!", "unixReviewTime": 1198022400, "reviewTime": "12 19, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A31ICLWQ9CSHRS", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "Al Swanson", "helpful": [12, 14], "reviewText": "The Pros:Wide ranging zoomFast, fast, fast focusingSHARPISL Build QualityThe Cons:I sold mine!!! NOooooo.WeightNo doubt, this is a heavy lens. It's also quite long when at 400mm. These two items are more than likely what combine to give some users soft shots, particularly at the long end of the zoom. Using a lens of 400mm is a skill. You need the same basic techniques as a good rifle shooter: controlled breathing, squeezing the shutter as opposed to mashing it down and a good, steady stance. You also need, even with IS, to keep shutter speeds up. Remember, at 400mm on a 1.6x camera, you're shooting with a 640mm equivalent lens. With the fl/shutter ratio of 1:1, you should keep shutter speeds up to 1/640. Even with IS on, you need to maintain a decent shutter speed if you want sharp shots. Use a gimbel head on your tripod and you'll really see this big guy shine.There's talk of copy-to-copy IQ issues, and as I mentioned above, I think they are linked to technique instead of variations of the lens - though I won't rule that out. There's also talk of the push-pull mechanism sucking dust. While air has to go in and out, it's a sealed lens and I think this is another widely circulated myth. Some dust is going to be present, but I don't think it's a \"dust trombone\" as some have suggested.Don't let this be your only source of info on this fine lens. Look to POTN and FM for other reviews. Learn how to use this big, bad boy. And don't ever do what I did! NEVER SELL IT!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "100-400 = Fantastic!", "unixReviewTime": 1172707200, "reviewTime": "03 1, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AGXV8E7XK9J6H", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "Brian Koch \"Aspiring Photographer\"", "helpful": [49, 51], "reviewText": "If you use this lens on a 1.6X camera body such as the XT, 20D, or 30D you end up with a 160-640mm equivalent which is an impressive range by any standard.  You can also add the 1.4X TC for a 896mm upper limit or the 2X TC for an amazing 1280mm.  Of course this comes at a price, and I'm not just talking money.  You will have to use a tripod, cable release, and mirror lockup a lot of the time when using such long focal lengths.  Plus this thing is very heavy and very large and people will take notice.  So if stealth photography is your goal, go with something like the 70-300 DO.That being said, this is an amazing lens, admittedly a little slow near the long end, but to get down to f/4 would have most likely doubled or tripled the price and weight, so it seems like an acceptable trade-off.If you want sharp pictures, an amazing zoom range, and a good workout, but don't mind being the center of attention, this is the lens for you.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A Workout, but Well Worth it", "unixReviewTime": 1146182400, "reviewTime": "04 28, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A11SPSEM08VIXX", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "Carbonadam \"Ladies and gentleman, I hope that...", "helpful": [11, 18], "reviewText": "This lens is amazing. Nothing escapes it. It's like a black hole. Clearly the best lens I have ever owned. It's like the lidless Eye of Sauron from the Lord of the Rings. It is heavy and requires rethinking how you hold the camera. It comes with a beautiful case, a hood, and a tripod mount on the lens. Believe me you will need it. I took a few photos of my son from 250 feet away and they look great. I will now get to work reading the small manual. It has 2 focal settings and 2 stabilizing settings. Wow!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A Powerhouse!", "unixReviewTime": 1156291200, "reviewTime": "08 23, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A19NBJJAT50FAI", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "catippins", "helpful": [22, 22], "reviewText": "If you haven't shot with Canon \"L\" series glass, you will (quite literally) gasp when you look at the quality of your images for the first time.  This lens is that good.I bought this lens to photograph birds primarily.  To say I've been extremely happy would be an understatement.  The IS component of this lens will astound you.  I've also used this lens handheld at air shows as well and quite frankly, when I get home to look at my photos I'm nothing short of astonished at how well image stabilization works.  Note, however, that most of my work is done on a tripod to photograph our beautiful feathered friends.  If you'd like to see  what I'm talking about you can visit my site in my profile or just Google \"Christopher Tippins\" and see for yourself how the lens performs.  All of my recent bird photography and air show photography has been shot exclusively with this lens (see \"New Photos\").Also note that you will further be impressed to the nines when you are shooting at the short end of the focal length of this lens (about 6 or 7 feet, give or take).  I've shot dragon flies, flowers and various other subjects and the detail is nothing less than spectacular.  You will literally be able to count hairs on the back of insects/dragon flies, etc.I've used it on two bodies - the Canon 60d and a recently acquired Canon 7d.  It performs superbly on both as is to be expected.Recently I was doing some shooting at a zoo and pushed the ISO to 1000 on the 7d to get some shots in low light at  1/15 of a second and got some tack sharp images (yes, I've had to run those shots through some noise reduction filters, however).  I couldn't believe it.Note that Canon (and many people) recommend shooting with IS turned OFF on a tripod.  While your mileage may vary, I find wind at the 400mm end of this lens to be a factor and leaving IS turned on helps considerably.Image quality with this lens wide open is also impressive.Also take note of this:  I have a bud who shoots with this lens as well as a Canon 400 prime and I'll be damned if I (we) can see any difference in the quality of the shots.  I also recently purchased the Canon 1.4 telephoto extender (older type II) and I'm equally impressed with how well they work together as well, but that's another review.Note that I am of the type of person who is a very harsh (but fair) critic of products in general.If you're the same, you will NOT be disappointed in this lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Magnificence Defined", "unixReviewTime": 1325808000, "reviewTime": "01 6, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A184ZNI4K5ZSHY", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "Frank Shoemaker \"Frank\"", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "I'm not going to write 80 lines like some techy guys do.  I'll just shoot from the hip.  This is a great zoom lens.  It zooms quickly, ready when you are, and tack sharp photos.  I'll post a couple of my shots that I recently shot at the Atlanta Zoo.  It was a big investment.....but worth it!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Rock Solid, Fast, and Sharp!", "unixReviewTime": 1282348800, "reviewTime": "08 21, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "AFIR57I2Y901O", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "G. F. THOMAS \"fredth\"", "helpful": [28, 30], "reviewText": "I've only had this lens for a few days and I will say it has impressed me. It does have drawbacks, needs lots of light and is somewhat heavy. I would not like to carry all day,but for my need it isn't a problem.I have a couple of photos on display taken the first day I purchased the lens . It was a very overcast day and I think they turned out reasonable for the weather. My test at home when the sun popped out were outstanding. As for the push and pull adjustment I see no problem with it.I think with a little more experience it will be a very good purchase for my budget. I know there are higher quality lens but price becomes an issue,when you are a amature hobbiest like I am.I would recommend for any one who likes to take wildlife photos. The 5 star rating is for the money and quality it is a very good lens!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Very good in bright light!", "unixReviewTime": 1135900800, "reviewTime": "12 30, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A305ZGF3YJKTBR", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "G. Raney", "helpful": [12, 13], "reviewText": "Great photos, fast focus, a little heavy...  I use the lens for action photography, and I love it.  I get the long shots I want with fast focus and sharp results.  I use a mono-pod, so the weight is only a minor issue.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1255996800, "reviewTime": "10 20, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "AU5U16YWAIYZP", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "Grant Brummett", "helpful": [77, 83], "reviewText": "Verdict:If you need 100-400mm on a Canon EOS camera, buy it!  This is your best bet!!If you need 300mm or 400mm and are on a budget, buy it!If you need a Zoo or air show lens this is it, buy it!You won't be disappointed!!4-27-2009 I just got back from photographing the World Premiere of X-Men Origins: Wolverine and once again the 100-400 IS L lens was awesome.  I ended up mainly using two lenses the Canon 24-70 F/2.8 L zoom and Canon 100-400 IS L zoom lens with most photos taken with the 100-400.  When you have only one chance to get Hugh Jackman  riding by on his Harley you want to make sure you have reliable quick focusing equipment.  Plus a lot of times you just can't get any closer to the action like at a World Movie Premiere, it's times like that when you absolutly need a zoom and the 100-400 IS L is one of the best!  [...]01-03-09 Canon 5D Mark II Update:Canon 100-400 F/4.5 - F/5.6 IS L lens. This is the second most used lens in my 5D Mark II arsenal. This lens was my biggest surprise and is not only tied for second place with the Canon 135mm F/2 for sharpness but is amazingly sharp wide open. It's a monster of clarity at F/7.1 like it never was on my Canon 40D. It also becomes useable on the 5D Mark II in wider shot situations where on the 40D it was only usable as a longer lens. Sporting the longest zoom range of any Canon zoom this lens has to be without doubt the finest Zoo lens ever made. You can frame almost any animal in almost any exhibit perfectly. This is also my lens of choice for taking photos of people at events and aircraft at air shows with the 5D Mark II and is the King of versatility on a full-framed sensor camera. This is my sharpest and clearest zoom lens by a long shot (no pun intended. It's as close to the you are there feeling of the 85mm F/1.2 lI lens as any zoom lens I have.After an extensive battery of tests both hand held and tripod mounted I have come to the following shocking conclusions.The Canon 100-400 L zoom is almost as sharp at F/8 as my Canon 85mm  F/1.2 at F4 and that's saying something!!!Slightly sharper at F/8 as my Canon 70-200 F/2.8 and that's saying something to!!!I may have a very sharp copy and I hear there are soft copies out there.  Make sure and buy yours here at Amazon.com where you can return the lens if its not as sharp as you thought.Pros:Super Sharp!Very versatile!Great ContrastGood bang for the buck100-400mm SWEET!This is the perfect Zoo lensThis is the perfect Air Show Zoo lensThis is the perfect Renaissance Festival lensAttracts a lot of attention, you will be asked if you are a proImage stabilizer lets you get away with crazy like shutter speedsSweet Bokeh at subject filling close range and at all ranges on full frame sensor cameraRaw photos respond well to sharpening and contrast / colors in Canon Digital Photo professionalCons:Can be heavy for the uninitiated!Does draw dust into your camera when zoomed!Old style image stabilizer must turn off on tripodZoom locking ring is attached to the manual focus ring.No weather proofing, a strange thing for an out door lensAttracts a lot of attention, you will be asked if you are a proPulls dust into lens around the zoom ring when zooming in and outSlow auto focus compared to other L lens, slower then all of them except my Canon 85mm F/1.2 L IIStrange black hole if you take a photo when jerking the lens to track a birdLens sometimes seems to slow cameras response when taking a photoOn cropped sensor cameras only strange variable looking Bokeh at some distances especially when stopped down and in sunlight with contrasting lines like branches.  Wonder bokeh no full frame camera (5D Mark II)I gave it only 4 Stars because of the crazy way the zoom friction and manual focus rings are together and lack of weather sealing and variable Bokeh.  It takes a dedicated photographer familiar with the lens to get consistent because of the variable Bokeh. Separate the manual focus and zoom friction rings, give it weather sealing, updated IS and great Bokeh at all settings and ranges and I would have given it 5 stars!Introduction:Longer range and versatility that's what I needed for my Canon 40D.  What good is a prime if you don't get the shot at all?  I mean I love my Canon 135mm F/2 it has the best Bokeh in the world along with my 85mm F/1.2 but it's a little short for birding even on a 40D and after renting a Canon EF 500mm f/4L IS you know what the meaning of heavy (8.5 pounds) and specialized mean.Plus there's nothing like having a zoom, take time to change out that lens during a renaissance festival and you just may miss a once in a lifetime shot.My 70-200 F/2.8 L is a great lens but the zoom range is way too short at times like these.  I want something with much more zoom capability.I wanted something I could take to the zoo and gets shots both near and far and the same at air shows and the renaissance festival and maybe even a football or soccer game or rodeo and all without a time consuming dust introducing lens change.  At the festival you can go from a knight and damsel group portrait shot to a close up of a bird of prey flying by in a second and without changing lens.  At an air show you can be shooting the crowd waiting in line to board a C5 Galaxy cargo plane and in the same minute swing up and get an F-16 cockpit shot as it roars by.  On a cropped camera you are at 640mm and into serious birding territory on a full framed hey you still have 100-400.First shots:OK, I must have gotten a really good sample because after sharpening  the Raw files in Canon Digital Photo Professional (DPP) this lens is sharp at all zooms and very sharp indeed stopped down to 7.1 between 300 and 375mm.  No complaints there that's for sure!! It's very close to my Canon 70-200mm F/2.8 in it's sweet spot.Zoos:WOW!!!  I visited the Phoenix Zoo this last Saturday with my Canon 40D and this new Canon 100-400 IS L zoom and all I can think of is wow!!  Where have you been all of my life?  With a zoom range of 160 to 640mm when mounted on my Canon 40D you can't go wrong.  And with the image stabilizer IS you can literaly stick this camera in auto ISO and walk through the entire zoo with just one lens and get great closeup shots of everything.  Need a portrait of that Tiger while he's walking the back wall as far away as he can get?  No problem, zoom out to 400mm which equals 640mm, here kitty kitty kitty.  And how about the Flamingo's right up next to the fence and you want the whole group, just zoom back to 100mm and bingo!I wonder why I hadn't purchased this lens from the start.  No dust educing, time eating lens changes required, just go through every exhibit with the one lens picking off animals one by one or in groups.  It's like shooting fish in a barrel, yeee haaaa!!!Notes:Seems sharpest at 375mm and F/7.1 and F/8Variable Bokeh, can be the best or worst depending on use (see Bokeh below)Air (and dust) seems to enter and exit around zoom ring as you zoom (NOT into and out of the camera sensor as some would have you believe).Review:This lens takes some getting used to, it's different: longer, more complicated, push pull zoom and IS make it a little more complicated then the other lenses I have.The first few shots I took with it were rather disappointing but then I started finding the groove for this long-range photographic weapon and when used in that scope you can score some really fantastic jaw dropping photos.Overall my Canon 70-200 F/2.8 seems to make a slightly more pleasing photo at times and at other times the 100-400 does.  The 70-200 as more consistently pleasing Bokeh.  But the 100-400 200mm longer.  The physical size when the 100-400 is at 100mm is very close indeed and the weight feels close to the same in the hand with the 70-200 feeling slightly lighter.The strange thing I find too is the zoom locking ring and manual focus ring are attached to each other and change position as you zoom in and out.  This makes for a little confusion when reaching for it at first as you never know where it is when quickly reaching for it while keeping your eyes in the viewfinder.  That and if it's tight at all you have to take both hands to release the tension and move the zoom where you want.The Groove:Make sure you have the IS in the ON positionShoot with plenty of light and hold her steadyShoot between 300mm and 375mm at F/7.1 or F/8Make sure focus limiter switch is in the correct positionShoot in Raw and process in Digital Photo Professional (DPP)Don't be afraid to push the sharpness and color way up in DPP as neededPractice Practice Practice  if you are shooting digital then you can practice plenty.Image Stabilizer (IS):I have taken HAND HELD SHOTS at 1/10s and 1/6s even zoomed out to 400mm of the neighbors house and car down the street and they came out so well you can read the license plate!  I set my 40D to 3200 ISO and wide open aperture then simply propped my elbows on top of the trash can and took some night shots to see what this lens could do. I couldn't do it every shot only about 1 out of 5 to get my breathing and the timing of the shot right but the fact that I could pull these shots off at all is incredible!!!To get consistent shots I in better lighting conditions I have found with my elbows propped I can consistently pull off 1/30 second at 400mm which works out to 640mm on a 40D!  With un-propped arms I could pull of 1/60 second at 400mm.  This alone should be a good reason to buy this lens.Bokeh:On full frame cameras like the Canon 5D Mark II the Bokeh is great.  At close range it's almost as good as any lens I have.  Well except for maybe the Canon 85mm F/1.2 II L.  But over all it's great.But, if you are using this lens on a cropped sensor then be sure to read the next paragraph.How could one lens have such fantastic Bokeh in one shot and such strange horrible Bokeh in the next?  Up close with frame filling subjects near wide open aperture the Bokeh is a dream, but shoot at further distances with a cropped sensor camera like a Rebel or Canon 40D/50D etc with branches as a background stopped down so you can see some detail there are weird lines around each item.  Shooting aircraft or birds in flight this is no problem as the background is just sky, but distant birds in trees with some leaves and limbs out of focus and the photos can look very strange.Lens Vignetting (Light Fall-off)Light fall off in the corner of your photos or vignetting is no longer a problem for any Canon lens on the newer Canon Digital Cameras like the Canon Rebel XTi, XSi, 40D/50D, 5D Mark II as the Vignetting can be corrected automatically in-camera and with Raw photos in Digital Photo Professional (DPP).  You can even adjust the amount of correction to your photos as needed with Raw photos in DPP, sweet!!!In flight tips:Shooting in-flight birds and planes with this lens then follow these tips.Shoot in bright lightSet minimum focus switch to 6.5 metersTurn Off IS if you have enough light, the auto focus seems a little faster without itSet Auto Focus Mode to AI Servo and Drive mode to maximum frames per secondSet exposure compensation to +2/3 stop especially for darker birds or bird will be underexposedMake sure shutter speed will be at least 1/500s or faster set aperture and or ISO as needed I usually end up on Auto ISO on my 40DPre-focus on something similar to the distance of the target bird or planePull zoom back to 100mm to ease acquirement of target bird then zoom as needed towards 400mm while trackingStart shooting as soon as a decent focus and composition of the bird is acquired (DON'T wait for the perfect composition)If needed try looking over the top of the camera and down the top of the lens barrel and try to acquire the bird first then look through the lens.Once acquired hold down the shutter and keep firing off photos as you never know which shot will be a keeper.Push / Pull ZoomThis is a love / hate affair because I love the way I can quickly zoom from 100  - 400mm very rapidly, but...The friction ring to adjust the tension of zooming is attached to the manual focus ring.  This means you can't simply reach forward and grasp the friction ring and adjust it with one hand.  No you must hold the lens with two hands one holding the focus ring and the other the friction ring and then adjust.The friction ring and manual focus rings both move back and forth with the front part of the lens when you zoom.  What this means is when you are in the heat of battle you can't always reach forward by feel and do a manual focus as the distance out on the zoom where the focus ring is located is highly variable.I don't know if it's possible but if it were I would have Canon redesign the zoom ring and the focus ring separate.  This would allow me to reach up and adjust the friction ring by touch without having to hold the manual focus ring to keep both from just turning.  And to adjust the manual focus without tightening up or loosing the friction ring.Anyway the whole process takes a little while to get used to especially for those of use coming from say a 70-200 F/2.8 zoom where I can always just adjust the zoom of the lens a little with no thought and without taking my eyes off the subject from the viewfinder.Uses:Any outdoor photography where you need a wide focal range in a really short amount of time and can't always get really close to your subject but need a close up of it.  Zoo's, Air Shows, Renaissance Festivals, Rodeos, Football, Baseball, Soccer I can think of lot's of tests in the coming weeks for this lens and I intend to hit every one of them.Verdict:If you need a zoom with more reach then your 70-200 then this is your best option.  Try it and you just might like it.Updates:As usual I will be coming back to this post and giving updates on my use of this lens.  I have Canon a 5D Mark II on order and will update with how this lens works on a full frame body.  Should be a whole another world.11-04-2008 Update:I have found that by taking the tripod mount off the lens is much more comfortable to hold and you can get to the zoom friction lock ring and the manual focus ring much easier.  The IS on this lens makes a tripod an option not mandatory and when out photographing wild life hand holding is much easier.11-05-2008 Update:I put all my longer lenses up against the Canon 100-400 in a battery of tests both hand held and tripod mounted and was amazed at the results.  At F/8 where it's sharpest Zoomed to 135mm and 200mm it's as sharp as my Canon 135mm F/2 prime and my Canon 70-200 F/2.8 zoom.  And it has better contrast then the 135mm F/2.  Both the 135mm and 70-200 have better Bokeh though but I was surprised how useful the 100-400 with IS can be in low light as long as the subject is motionless.  I have found with practice and bracing I can consistently get good sharp photos at 400mm at 1/30 second and have scored a few shots as slow as 1/6 second by bracing both elbows putting the camera on high speed and shooting 6 shot bursts.  One or two of the middle shots are always sharp.  Simply amazing!!  So if anyone is telling you this lens is worthless on a darker day or at sunrise or sunset they just don't know this lens.  I have found even getting pretty sloppy you can get consistent shots at 400mm at 1/200 second.  Next earl morning shoot at the bird sanctuary this 100-400 is the lens I am bringing.11-07-2008 Update:I have found that you can actually rotate the tripod mount up 180 degrees so that it is facing upward and out of your way but still have it on the lens.  Could be handy if you want to have the mount with you but not in the way when using the lens.11-12-2008 Update:The more I use this lens and get used to it the more I love it.  I can't see myself without it now.  I am totally used to the push / pull zoom and now actually like it better.12-2-2008 Update:Found this interesting information and thought I would pass along.The Canon 100-400mm F/4.5-5.6 L IS also has fluorite and Super UD-glass.  Fluorite has very low dispersion so the 100-400 exhibits less chromatic aberration than if it were made of ordinary glass.  The fluorite lens element  aligns the points of focus of the three primary spectral colors of red, green and blue to meet at one point for ideal correction of chromatic aberration. Also included is UD-glass, which is a special type of optical glass whose properties nearly match those of Fluorite.Bottom line on the fluorite and Super UD-glass, you get the best possible image even though you get a huge 100-400mm zoom range!1-30-2009 Update:I just bought a new Zoo membership and took my daughter with me on my second visit to the zoo.  She brought another lens along and quickly wanted to borrow the 100-400.  There was no going back she didn't want to give it back and clicked off one perfect photo after another including the Male Baboon photo I posted with the photos here.  I am so sold.  Can hardly wait to try this lens at the Renaissance festival next weekend.5-26-2009 100-400 update:  So I came back from the Riparian Bird Preserve yesterday where it was rather dusty and I noticed that my sensor and mirror box were full of dust.  I decided to do a test on my 100-400 lens and sure enough it does pump dust into the camera body.If you turn the zoom friction ring all the way loose and zoom in and out with the bottom end cap off there is no resistance.  If you put the bottom end cap on tightly and zoom you can feel resistance.  Then if you loosen the end cap just a little you can actually feel air being sucked in and out around the end cap as you zoom in and out.Thank God for my FIrefly digital sensor cleaning system!  Be forewarned if you own this lens you will need to take care in dusty environments.6-27-2009Still very in love with this lens.  You can see a lot the photos I have taken with it at a web site called flickr.  They won't allow me to put a link here anymore but you can go to flickr and search for my name Grant Brummett then look through the photos.  I used this lens for the majority of the photos in my Wolverine X-Men movie premiere set.Lenses I currently own:Canon EF-S 17-55 F/2.8 IS Ultra sharp, great colors, great low light, poor zoom actionCanon EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 Rebel XTi Kit lens Muddy, slow, pile of junkCanon EF 17-40mm f/4 L Fantastic colors, sharp zoomed 17 to 24mm, ultra smooth zoom action, light weightCanon EF 24-70mm f/2.8 L Fantastic colors and contrast, sharp zoomed 40 to 70mm, zoom a little stiff at first, heavy, repair prone!Canon EF 50mm f/1.8 II Good budget portrait lens, light weight, disposable, sharp from F/2.5Canon EF 85mm F/1.2 L II The best portrait lens for female and children clients, buttery smooth Bokeh, heavy and expensive it shares sharpness with 135mmCanon EF 135mm F/2.0 L The best portrait lens for males and tied with Canon 85mm F 1/.2 for sharpest lens I own, buttery smooth BokehCanon EF 70-200mm f/2.8 L fantastic colors, sharp for a zoom, very versatile ego boosting and attention getting and heavy!  My favorite zoom lens!!!Canon EF 100-400mm f4.5-5.6L great IS, super colors, sharp for a zoom, extremely versatile, variable Bokeh, even more ego boosting and attention getting when extended and 400mm reach, will pump dust into your camera body.My next lens purchase I'm saving for right now: _Canon EF 300mm F/2.8 IS L the finest lens ever", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "The greatest Zoo and Event Lens ever made bar none!!", "unixReviewTime": 1225584000, "reviewTime": "11 2, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A10L2P65EM6PVW", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "J. Bonner", "helpful": [30, 30], "reviewText": "This is my 3rd Canon L series lens, after the 24-70mm f/2.8 and the 70-200mm f/2.8 IS.  While those lenses are faster and better for general work, I would not trade this lens for any other when it comes to sports and wildlife photography.  For the price you just cannot beat this lens.  I may drool over a 600mm f/4 or a 400mm f/2.8, those lenses cost 4 to 6 times as much money and are not at all portable.  This lens is hand-holdable (though I strongly suggest a monopod), and has the benefit of being a zoom lens, so you dont have to switch cameras to go between moderatly close and far away shots.  I use it for football, soccer, and baseball and softball, and it is more than adequate for my needs.  Maybe someday when I land that Sports Illustrated gig I will want to go bigger, but for now this is perfect.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Amazing sports lens", "unixReviewTime": 1169251200, "reviewTime": "01 20, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A32Z02M0CW15LX", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "Joe Harlow \"Torque\"", "helpful": [21, 21], "reviewText": "I have used this lens almost exclusively on safari in seven different locations.  I see people recommending fixed focal length lenses for safaris but you would need at least two if not three fixed lenses to equal this lens, who can afford that?  And how would you get them to your destination?  Most unsharp photo problems can be blamed on camera shake and while IS does a great job the photographer has a job too.  Using a fast shutter speed not only takes care of the sharpness problem but stops animals in their tracks.  How do you alway have a fast shutter speed?  Digital cameras let you set the ISO so you just have to keep on top of the available light situation.  Old film users like me like 100 ISO but we have to let go of that and move on to 400, 600, even 1000 ISO when the light demands it.  Modern digital cameras can still give you great photographs at those speeds if you will let them.  I have a photo from a Canon 20d on my wall that is 32 X 24 inches taken with this lens at 500 ISO that is tack sharp.  And I will remind you that this lens on a 20d equals a 160-640mm lens.  Many of my animal photographs have been taken at the maximum length with great hand held results.  I try to keep the shutter speed at least at 1/320 or faster unless I am looking for a special effect.  Too many people blame lenses for soft focus when it is shutter speed that is to blame.  I am currently using a 40d with this lens and for wild animal photography I would say that it is close to the best combination available today as it extends this lens to 640mm. Yes, fixed focal length lenses are great but how many can you carry and what if you have your 400mm lens on your camera when an elephant walks up to within 30 feet of you?  I always take two cameras with one mounted with a 70-200mm 2.8 lens but most photos are taken with the 100-400mm, I love this lens!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best Safari Lense Available!", "unixReviewTime": 1210723200, "reviewTime": "05 14, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A3ULCLCHPLPCDS", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "John Grooms", "helpful": [18, 19], "reviewText": "I read 100's of reviews on the Canon EF 100-400mm IS USM zoom lens before taking the plunge. Most reviews were glowing, and from reviewers who advised \"just do it\". But there were also some from people who had a \"less than expected\" experience. I really needed the variable reach and at least 400mm of it at times, and also really needed fast and accurate AF for sports, so this seemed like the one to try. I've now logged over 3000 shots, and only wound up with about 20 that weren't properly focused (most of these were my fault since I was using ONE SHOT focusing mode on my camera).I now have to say - absolutely amazing results.When I got the lens, I played around with the Canon 50D lens micro focusing adjustment for an entire evening in low light, and with the LCD moire test pattern approach, and couldn't find a better setting than the default \"+/- 0\" for BOTH 100mm & 400mm zoom points. Then, on the soccer field, this lens blew me away with its clarity. And while I know that several people have complained about its bokeh, I couldn't disagree more - what I got was beautiful. Background spectators, coaches, tree's, and sky were all very nicely blurred - no artifacts and nothing strange at all, and this made each image subject stand out brilliantly.I shot sunshine one day, and pouring rain the next. Both gave me excellent results. I shot ISO400, F8 (bright day) and ISO500, F7.1 (overcast) on a monopod with the focus range limited on the lens to 6.5m and IS mode 2 (allows for panning). Based on all of the reviews, and my own experimenting between F5.6 and F8 indoors, I opted to shoot at F8 or F7.1 to extend the DOF a bit, and get the crispest images possible.I used ONE SHOT AF with center focus set on the camera. The results were fast, accurate, and as I said - left me with amazing images that were tack sharp. The Canon 50D also does a great job outdoors with ISO400 & 500, so no real sacrifice there to shoot stopped down a bit.Push-pull zoom? I wondered about this too from all the negative press in some of the reviews. I found the push-pull action (with adjustable friction) to be PERFECT for shooting on a pod. One other advantage point not made by others, that I discovered in the pouring rain - when you're outfitted with a rain bonnet over the lens and camera, it's trivial to push-pull the zoom in and out with your wet \"free\" hand with the camera and lens completely protected. This would NEVER have worked with a rotating zoom ring on the lens, as I was constantly going from 100mm to 400mm and all points in between as the action moved around quickly on the field.I would like to try the 1.4 extender with this lens and birds/wildlife, but think it would be a waste of time for sports, with baseball being the possible exception, since you lose AF capability with this lens. That would never have worked for me shooting soccer. As an experiment, I was also able to shoot about half a soccer game hand held, without the monopod, using IS mode 1 in bright sun, and got VERY good results as well, but did notice the camera/lens weight after a while. Fatigued arms tend to shake more, and controlled breathing won't help this, so I'd recommend a monopod or tripod for extended shooting. The lens mount for this leaves a very nicely balanced set-up that isn't always trying to fall forwards or backwards on your mount.In closing, I have to second everyone else who's written \"just do it, you won't be sorry\" on this lens. And if you are sorry, you've probably gotten a bad copy and I'd recommend returning it or sending it in to Canon for a tune-up. This lens CAN really deliver - I now have lots of proof. One other thing - I have been watching the rumor mill for Canon to release its F4 update version of this lens. Like others, I figured as soon as I bought the F4.5-5.6, they'd announce the new one a day later. Couple of points on that - (1) you might still be sitting, waiting, this time next year, and have missed some great shots, (2) if Canon rolls out a fixed F4, you KNOW it's going to cost a lot more, and (3) I believe Canon has steadily and quietly been making improvements to their 100mm-400mm all along; you can see a lot more \"recent buyers\" really, really happy with the copy they got, and older versions (especially those bought used) as the ones people complain most about. Now I can't wait for the rain to stop so I can go hunting some birds...Canon EF 100-400mm f4.5-5.6L IS USM Telephoto Zoom Lens for Canon SLR Cameras", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "This lens delivers...", "unixReviewTime": 1245628800, "reviewTime": "06 22, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A17VZMM5NR9SWG", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "Kelly D. Painter", "helpful": [41, 44], "reviewText": "I agree with all the others comments about this lens.  It works great but it is big, heavy and attracts attention.  When I say it attracts attention, I am not kidding.  I was at an airshow taking pictures along with a lot of other amature photographers.  My 100-400mm lens, however, attracted the attention of a local newpaper reporter who interviewed me.  However, I bought it to use with my 20D at airshows and I can honestly say I am not disapointed.  It was well worth the money.I also bought a cheap Kenko 1.5x teleconverter for kicks.  While the converter isn't \"L\" grade, I am pleased with the results and the autofocus still works which I understand is not the case with the Canon TCs.For those looking for a big zoom lens and you want IS, you are ulitimately going to wind up buying this lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Awesome at Airshows", "unixReviewTime": 1141430400, "reviewTime": "03 4, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1VVRA3P6G1TWH", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "Luving it", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "I am an enthusiast shooting on Canon 40D and 5D.Pro:1. Surprisingly hand-heldable, considering the weight. IS helps a GREAT DEAL.2. Zoom is extremely smooth, way better than the twist and zoom on my Sigma 170-500. And it doesn't creek! (amazing engineering. In comparison, my old Tamron 18-250 and Sigma 170-500 immediately extend to the full length with a loud thunk when pointing downwards, while my new 18-270 is so tight it's hard to zoom in and out). This is my first push-pull zoom and there is no learning curve at all. I love it!3. No issue with so called dust pump problem - actually the Sigma and the much smaller Tamron 18-250 suck in more air than this one - you can easily tell by put you hand at the back of the lens and zoom back the lens and feel the air flow for yourself.4. The lens balances extremely well on 40D and 5D without grip. The Sigma feels significally top heavy in comparison.5. The color and contrast is L lens at its best, thanks to its quality glasses.6. The length is quite managable actually, but a very thick lens nevertheless. The Sigma 170-500 is quite slim in comparison.7. The AF is very responsible and assuring, even in modest indoor light (blinders partially closed). There is no comparison between the Canon L ring type USM and the regular Sigma AF.8. IS works SEAMLESSLY. No noise, no ify in-between states. It works its magic without my awareness. Tamron and cheaper Canon like 70-300 announce their IS effects in distinctive and sometimes unnerving noises.9. Background blur is milky smooth if you give enough distance between your subject and the background. My 70-200/F4L has a much more nervous blur in comparison.10. Very LOW CA (color fringe, purple ring etc) at the long end. This is another nice surprise to me since I've heard many saying otherwise about this lens.11. Everything about this lens is top quality, hood, collar, fit and finish.Neutral:1. Not the sharpest lens when pixel peeks, especially wide open. But the wide open shots are way more than 'acceptable' to me as an enthusiast. Here I am talking about hand held shots. I am sure the sharpness will improve on a tripod.2. This is a very fat lens, white, not light weight, not fast, not cheap, no surprise. Putting this in perspective, this is a rather \"cheap\" and light weight tele comparing to the other fast tele primes/zooms. I tried out the Bigma in a Tokyo store several years ago and I didn't like the feel of it, the zoom, balance, IQ - didn't use it on tripod at the time.Con:None so far.Bottom line:A very hand-heldable tele zoom with great overall IQ. This is perhaps in the same vein as the Canon 70-200/F4L, 24-105L and 17-40L, relatively affordable with all the L lens advantages with great convenience and assured consistent IQ (AF speed and accuracy, weight balance in hand, mechanical quality all contributes to the end results of course) But they are certainly not the fastest or the sharpest lens on the market. But add convenience to the equation, these are certainly at the top of the game.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great tele zoom", "unixReviewTime": 1249948800, "reviewTime": "08 11, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A2E2I580OO3HET", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "M. Broderick \"mikebinok\"", "helpful": [66, 69], "reviewText": "Good points about this lens:1)  It is the cheapest long lens with image stabilization you can get.2)  It is flexible (100-400mm zoom range)3)  Image quality of a good copy is superb on a cropped frame digital camera such as the Digital Rebel series.  A good copy is decent on a full-frame camera.4)  It is light enough to carry, and you CAN use it handheld in reasonably bright light. Image quality from a tripod is better, of course.Bad points about the lens:1)  It seems to have variable image quality between different copies.  Some copies aren't as good as mine is (believe me, I don't say that about all my lenses!).  My suspicion is that newer copies are on average better than old ones.  Check out whichever copy you get while you can still return it.2)  Image quality drops a bit on a full-frame camera if you don't stop down at least one stop (to f/8 or f/11) and preferably back off slightly from 400mm to 370 or so.  Image quality from 100mm to 250mm is as good as my prime lenses in that range.3)  It's a reasonably portable lens for it's focal length, but the size and white color will still draw unwanted attention from civilians, who will all ask if you work for National Geographic.4)  The \"trombone\" style of changing focal length is a bit gawky, and more important it does draw dust inside the lens.  My copy (4 years old) has speckles of dust all over the INSIDE of the front element, unlike any other lens I own.5)  The image stabilization doesn't function reliably on a tripod.  Canon recommends you turn of stabilization in that situation (and you'll get a better-quality image off a tripod for sure).", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Not perfect, but excellent nonetheless", "unixReviewTime": 1179014400, "reviewTime": "05 13, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3DRT9IRH63ZHB", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "Michael Morgan", "helpful": [204, 214], "reviewText": "Reviews of this lens on the web are mixed with some showing soft results, particularly at 400mm.  This is likely due to wide variations in sample lenses.  I decided to take a chance and seem to have gotten lucky.  My copy, just received from Amazon (Build date of Oct 2005) produces fantastically crisp and contrasty images on my 20D at ALL focal lengths from 100 to 400.  It's almost magical.  The images are much sharper using the same f-stops than those from a 70-200 f2.8IS lens at 100-150mm and virtually the same at 200mm.  Even wide-open at 400mm this lens is quite sharp.  At 400mm, I've compared to a very nice Canon 400mm f5.6L prime lens, with and without 1.4X teleconverter.  The images have virtually the same extreme sharpness and contrast if the zoom is stopped down just one one-third stop (e.g. zoom at 6.3, prime at 5.6).  With the 1.4X TC both lenses had to be manually focused but produced outstanding clarity with NO perceivable loss in quality.  The focus is swift and true and the IS on this lens really works (and does not hum like that on the 70-200 f2.8IS) allowing handheld shots at 1/100 sec at 400mm.  It may be that Canon has quietly improved this lens since recent reviews seem to be much more positive than those from a few years ago.  Some folks don't like the push-pull zoom but it works great for me and allows very fast composition of scenes.  The lens is about the same size as the 70-200 f2.8 IS but seems lighter and better balanced.  Given the razor sharpness of its images and 100-400mm range, this seems like the perfect single lens solution for nature and bird photography.  However, it is big and white so it may not be the best for candid people photography.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Outstanding Image Quality and Zoom Flexibility - Almost Magical", "unixReviewTime": 1133136000, "reviewTime": "11 28, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A29PBY10CGDKA0", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "Mike From Mesa \"MikeFromMesa\"", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "I think the first thing that must be said is that this lens takes great pictures. The IS works really well and allows hand-held use, even in relatively dim light, if you are willing to crank up the ISO enough. I have taken some pictures I was very pleased with at about 7pm in the evening by using ISO 800 and, upon occasion, ISO 1600. Otherwise this lens needs either a monopod or, preferably, a tripod.The barrel slides in and out smoothly making it easy to frame your picture and the auto-focus works well. Fast and quiet. I have not had a problem with the AF hunting except in very low light. Except at 400mm the pictures are sharp and clear and, when the lens is fully open, the DOF is nice and slim allowing the subjects of the photo to really stand out. Even at 400mm this lens is much better than my Tamron 200-400 in terms of clarify and, what softness I did find at 400mm, was easily corrected in Photoshop. All in all a very nice lens except that  ...1) This lens is heavy. I know other people have said the same thing, but it did not become clear to me until I tried to use this lens as a \"walk-around\" lens. After about 30 minutes it started to become a real problem. And, because I was using this lens on an entry level DSLR (the Canon T1i) it felt as though the lens was not secure in the camera mount. The lens is so much heavier than the camera.2) This lens is long and there is no lens lock switch as on some other zoom lenses. There is a barrel tension adjustment which, I suppose, is supposed to help keep the lens from \"creeping\", but it did not prevent the lens from extending to its full length when I used it. Since the lens, including the lens hood, is 14\" long when extended, I found the lens handing down to my knees if I did not hold the lens when walking.3) Canon provides a very nice padded lens case, but no case strap. The vendor I bought this from (Canoga Camera) provided a lens strap, but it was thin and without padding so using it became painful after a bit. It might be worth purchasing a padded lens case strap.4) Obviously, because of the length of this length even when closed, you cannot expect to use the built-in flash without creating unsightly shadows in your picture, but I had no problems using even my small (270EX) Canon SpeedLite.5) A comment. Some reviewers have warned against using cheap UV filters. I bought a UV filter which I believed to be just fine, but it caused really unsightly blurring in the pictures I took when I viewed them at 40% or more. I initially thought the problem was the lens and could not believe such an expensive lens would take such bad pictures. But after I removed the filter and re-took the pictures I realized that the problem was the filter, not the lens. Be careful if you buy a UV filter to make sure it does not adversely affect your pictures.I use my camera and lenses mostly away from home. I like to hike through the National Parks in the West and that generally means climbing up and down on a regular basis. Given that usually I also carry either a monopod or a tripod, it makes it difficult to use this lens as a \"walk-around\" lens. I need one hand to hold the lens, another to hold the monopod and a third to help me get up or down some of the hills. So to use this lens I would have to leave it in the case (swinging back and forth as I climb) so that I have at least one hand free, or use a back pack. Either of those means leaving the lens un-mounted and having to then constantly mount and un-mount the lens to take pictures.Given all of this I would recommend this lens if you expect to use it close to home (or car, or camp site) and do not expect to have to do much hiking. Under these circumstances this is a wonderful lens. Otherwise you are going to have to be constantly mounting and un-mounting it to take pictures. Not only is that trouble, but it means you are going to lose a lot of spontaneous shots because you will not be prepared.If, like I, you expect to be climbing or walking in rough areas, I would recommend a smaller lens. I reluctantly returned this lens and expect to replace it with the Canon 70-300 DO. It won't have the reach, and may not have the IQ, but it will be easy to use and I will be ready to use it.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great lens, but", "unixReviewTime": 1275955200, "reviewTime": "06 8, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A21WBLB8KAFE1U", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "Mr. Paul Walsh", "helpful": [31, 35], "reviewText": "I bought this lense recently. At first I thought it was heavy, but once I got used to it, I decided that it was heavy due to quality. It is a big lense, and the tripod mount is very useful, especially for balance.You can't but notice the quality of this lense. The IS function is very useful.Combine this lense with the 2x Extender, and you've effectively got a 800mm lense.For anyone looking for a zoom lense, this is one to seriously consider. For sport, the IS function is brilliant, for wildlife ... well, I can go on and on about how good this lense is. Bottom line - well worth buying.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Worth the price", "unixReviewTime": 1121817600, "reviewTime": "07 20, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A9AHIQLSYQ4N0", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "Neale Fetterly", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "As good as I expected it to be - which is excellent.  While not a light weight lens it can be hand held, but will get heavy after a while.  I tested the lens on the bricks on the neighbors house across the street (using Rebel XT).  Great Resolution.  I did try my sigma 1.4x extender - taping 3 pins - and then using manual focus, but did it the day after I originally tested it.  Results from that were disappointing in a way - the 1.4x extender degraded the picture - I would have been far better off just cropping a photo.One note - when you buy this on Amazon it offers the hood, bag, etc... as accessories which puzzled the heck out of me.  It does come with caps, hood, bag & tripod ring.I have the 70-300 DO IS zoom that I use for travel - but this lens is much  better.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Canon EF 100-400mm f4.5-5.6L IS USM", "unixReviewTime": 1179014400, "reviewTime": "05 13, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AIJQU979J6UFY", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "Nick \"whereishawkins\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I've nicknamed my 100-400mm lens \"the Great White\", and I've put it to the test in safaris in Africa, looking for tigers in India, and shooting professional soccer in Chicago, and this lens has held up remarkably well.The push-pull zoom for this lens is a little weird to get used to, but it's now second nature. The IS feature features two modes, one for panning and one for static objects. For me, it helps with \"shaky hands\" because of the weight of this lens. In fact, if you're going to be shooting an event with this, get a support (monopod, bean bag, your kid's head, etc) for it.This lens is a light hog and not that fast compared to the speedier prime lenses. When I shoot soccer games, I notice the pros with 300 f/2.8 or better lenses. Well, since I'm not a pro nor do I make any money from my photos, I have to make the best of what I can afford, and this is it. Even when shooting a friend's kid's ice skating event, I was able to take awesome images in the relative dark with a fast shutter speed and higher ISO without issues.I had the 70-300mm lens before and I thought it was awesome until I borrowed a friend's 100-400. The difference in the quality of the images is just breathtaking. Like a previous reviewer, I screwed up by not investing in this lens earlier. It's a workhorse that has traveled with me everywhere. Sure, it's heavy, but it's an amazing piece of hardware that needs to be part of every serious photographer's arsenal of lenses.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Super sharp mega zoom lens", "unixReviewTime": 1254700800, "reviewTime": "10 5, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A2IC5YNF109DXX", "asin": "B00007GQLS", "reviewerName": "P. Lehmann", "helpful": [476, 496], "reviewText": "If the answer is \"Yes!\" then buy with confidence. This lens dominates its niche. It delivers on its promises and is one of the classic white L lenses.I got this lens to supplement the 28-135 IS, but I've ended up rarely using it. In fact, Ive decided that there may be a better choice for many photogs.First let me begin by stating the obvious. Most images taken with this lens here and on online galleries like photosig or photo*net are taken at 400mm. Duh! I was hunting last weekend and took this lens along shooting animal pics from a blind.  I set it to 400 and left it there.  For wildlife and landscape shooters in particular, if the lens is going to be used at 400mm practically all the time, I think a better choice might be the 400mm 5.6 prime- costs hundreds less and sharper to boot. Going a step further, one sucessful wildlife photog I know recommends that if you are thinking about shooting wildlife other than birds, forego 400mm(prime or zoom)and get the 300mm F4 prime. His opinion: the larger size of most mammals offsets the loss of that last 100mm, yet is sharper, has lower light perfomance for the times of day when most mammals start moving, and yes, less money.On the other hand, if your passion is shooting animals in a zoo, maybe this lens is for you. Dont have to worry about dawn or dusk shots and the range of the zoom might come in handy.Sports shooters might actually benefit from the zoom's ability to adjust to capture unpredictable shots, but unless youre right on the sideline I still suspect it will be left at 400 most of the time, so ditto the prime. Ive read that 5.6 can be a bit slow for for fast shutter speeds in anything but optimum light. Of course, the next step up, the 400mm F4 is over five grand, so 5.6 is the practial limit for most average consumers.In either case, you will be able to substantially reduce this handicap IF you have a sensor that takes good pics at ISOs of 800 or above. Thats not every camera.I put the lens on my 30D to check the aperture progression for you techies out there.  The lens shows F4.5 100~135mm, F5.0 ~135~270mm, and F5.6 thereafter.People and portraits? Thats where it gets trickier. I can see using 400mm compression for compositional reasons in an environmental portrait, but how much is that market segment? 100mm isnt a bad length for people pics, but doing long-distance photojournalistic stuff had me feeling like I was Magnum PI on a stakeout.If you're like me and the majority of your work involves people and portraits, the 70-200 2.8 (even non IS) is a much better choice for around the same money. I would have gotten 100x the use out of it over the past year.I bought this one before I really had the need for it, thinking I would expand my horizons, and it just never happened.But this lens does shine with its strengths. IS allows you to handhold 400mm pics with greater success than the non-IS prime. I dont do weddings but I can imagine IS allowing this lens as a supplement when a photog is stuck at the back of a church during the ceremony... as long as the lights arent too low.Right after I got it I was in DC and snapped a few pics of George Bush at the Capitol. Im nobody special and couldnt get any closer than the \"Nobody Special\" section...not close! This lens got usable pics that I could have cropped way down and still had good resolution close-ups. One of those pics is posted in the customer images here.Other benefits? The push-pull design allows almost instant adjustments. Because it compresses, its easer to carry than the prime (length- and size-wise, not weight). And, in spite of the fact that I use it far less than I imagined, I have no plans to get rid of the thing.So the question boils down to whether you really need the zoom, the IS, and the ranges of this lens at the higher price than the prime.  Wildlife/landscape photogs that use tripods? Maybe not. Sports shooters with monopods? Maybe. People shooters like me? I've learned almost never, unless I someday find myself a private detective or a voyeur.That said, if you weigh your wants and this lens still tugs at your heart, dont hesitate to buy it. It delivers performance and value...within specific parameters.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Powerhouse, but do you really need THIS lens?", "unixReviewTime": 1165276800, "reviewTime": "12 5, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AASSDFY9K6G2T", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Abdulrahman Aljabri", "helpful": [402, 419], "reviewText": "The answer is most likely yes; since its price make it the best value for a fast canon prime lens. But before you make the $350 plunge here are few useful things to know about how it can be used. Keep in mind that I use this lens on the Rebel XT (1.6 factor), which means it provides me with an angel of view similar to 135mm on film cameras.SHARPNESS: Yes that's one feature you can count on when buying this lens. This lens produces very sharp pictures. So much so that it will blow away your 18-55 kit lens (if you have one) and all other zoom lenses.  Exception to that are the L-series zooms. The sharpness difference will be obvious even in the smallest of prints (4 by 6). If you can't envision such difference then consider this. Sharpness can be viewed as contrast between the edges of different color objects. Hence, the sharper an image the greater the contrast in the edges between such groups of color. This lens captures the contrast in such setting better than most other lenses.SPEED: This lens is blazingly fast. As such you will have the opportunity to shoot at higher shutter speeds wide open (remember the inverse relation between aperture and shutter speed). More importantly you gain the ability to shoot in low light situations (concert for example) and still maintain a decent shutter speed for handholding. Here's the best part, if you're like most new people to photography, you probably plan to take self portraits. This lens will give you that ability, as you will be able to buy few clamp on lights coupled with 100-150W bulbs and start shooting at medium ISO speeds wide open.ANGEL OF VIEW: Assuming you will be using this lens on a 1.6 digital format consider that you will be having a tight crop, more like that of a 135mm lens on a film camera (1.6*85=136). What does that translate to in practical terms? You will have to stand 6-8 feet away from your subject to be able to cover their head and shoulders at landscape orientation.SPECIAL EFFECTS: Here are two special effects you will find useful in this lens depth of field and compression. To some degree or another every lens offers depth of field, which can be summarize as having only the subject of interest in focus and the rest of the picture blurred. This lens is unique in that it creates a very shallow depth of field in which the subject is truly isolated from the whole scene. Set the aperture to 1.8 and focus correctly and you can achieve such results. More importantly the lens quality of such blur (known as bokeh) is outstanding as there are eight diaphragm blades that control the aperture opening vs. 5 or 6 in many other lenses.As for compression, since the camera is a telephoto it will compress everything in its sight closer together to fit in its sight. For example, if you are photographing a person, their face will look wider and their nose will look smaller or flatter. Keep in mind that unlike some of the longer telephoto lenses (300mm for example) the effect with this lens is subtle and pleasantSIZE AND BUILD: Its size and weight are perfect! It balances my XT very nicely. So much so, that I can take pictures at very low shutter speeds with this combination (though I don't find my self doing that that often with this fast lens). All this translates to comfort and confidence when I am shooting with this lens. The build quality is excellent, I find no inherit weakness in the design.If you plan to photograph friends and family then this is the lens. You will take sharp pictures with the right kind of effects for portraits like compression and beautiful bokeh. The lens is fast and designed excellently for maximum control and comfort. You won't miss a shot because of shake with slow shutter speeds and even if you do (that's a big if) you can put its speed to use by dialing a higher aperture. It's only draw back is that it has a pretty tight angel of view on 1.6 factor SLRs. I can't think of any other prime in the non-L canon line up that matches this lens (other than possibly the 50mm 1.4). Truly an incredible value, buy it with confidence!Ps. By no means does this review cover all the merits of this lens. To name a couple, the lens offers precise auto focus and low chromatic aberration. Rather, I covered the features that were most useful for its intended purpose; taking pictures of people.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Do you really need this lens?", "unixReviewTime": 1144022400, "reviewTime": "04 3, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A22SWGU68YFC6X", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Adam Chan", "helpful": [10, 11], "reviewText": "I am new to photography.  I recently bought a Canon Rebel T2i with the 18-55 kit lens.  That lens is nice and it has a versatile range.  It's great for group shots.This 85mm is my second lens and it continuously amazed me with the incredible pictures it takes!  The pictures are CLEARLY different/better than those taken with the 18-55 kit lens.  It didn't take me very long to get used to the fixed focal length (no zooming in or out).  I think 85mm is a great lens and I can't wait to use it more and MORE!Obviously, 85mm is more zoomed than the most zoomed-in end of the 18-55 so keep in mind you will need to be at least 6 feet away from people to take their picture and get their head and shoulders.I HIGHLY recommend this lens as a next lens for people that bought an SLR and are looking for something more than the kit lens.  I LOVE IT!!!  Stop reading reviews and BUY THIS LENS! ...or keep reading, it's good to be thorough :)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Amazing Lens! (Huge step up from 18-55 kit lens)", "unixReviewTime": 1274918400, "reviewTime": "05 27, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A3U7HS3TEX6B90", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer \"fyngyrz\"", "helpful": [67, 69], "reviewText": "The Canon EF 85mm f/1.8 II USM lens is a moderate weight (15 oz), very well built lens. It does not come with the appropriate hood, the Canon ET-65 III. You get both a lens cap and a mount cap, all packed inside tight conformal foam to protect the lens during shipping. There's also a very brief manual and the usual warranty paperwork.The lens offers AF and manual focus, and allows manual focus even when AF is set to on, a very useful feature for low-light and other challenging focus situations. This is a USM lens, and as a direct consequence focus is fast and precise, just as you'd expect.The AF/Manual switch is in a reasonable location, close to the camera body. There is a range indication on the barrel of the lens behind a transparent window which serves to keep dust and debris out of the workings of the lens. Manual focus is controlled with a broad, easy to manage textured ring about mid-body on the lens. During focus, nothing external on the lens body moves or rotates, so there are no complications for using polarizing filters, and no concerns about the lens \"pumping\" air and so causing dust contamination in either the lens or camera with use.The lens lacks any form of image stabilization. IS is showing up in more and more lenses, though for the price... perhaps this is one of the justifications for building IS into the camera body. I'm sure that this design wouldn't be anywhere near its current price point with IS added to the build. One last point is that since the lens is a fairly fast design, perhaps there is less overall need for IS (though that argument falls completely apart the first time you *do* need it!)It takes a 58mm filter, though I highly recommend the use of the ET-65 III hood rather than a filter; filter use should be limited to polarizers, neutral density filters and so on, rather than keeping a filter on the lens with the idea of protecting it. Here's why: filters create a flat surface over the end of the lens that can (and often does) create low-level reflections. These are most apparent in low-light shots, but they are almost always there. In the case of a UV filter, no other benefit is gained (UV can't get through the lens system anyway) other than physical protection. The hood, however, keeps the lens out of harms way quite effectively, and it increases contrast and reduces flare at the same time by preventing light from entering the lens at high angles of attack. I have shot with both hoods and filters, and after decades of experience, I have to come down firmly on the side of hood technique. It only takes one shot ruined by a filter reflection to wake up to this reality; and hoods never, ever compromise an image. They're simply the best way to go. Finally, the hood for this lens is inexpensive, well worth the extra few dollars it costs.Aperture is controlled by an 8-blade system. The available f-stops range from f/1.8 wide open to f/22.0 fully stopped down. MTF (sharpness) peaks at f/5.6, and vignetting is almost gone by that setting.On my camera, an EOS 50D, resolution loss from diffraction effects begin at f/7.6, so in many ways, the \"sweet spot\" for this lens for me lands naturally at f/5.6. On a camera with a lesser sensel density such as the 40D, diffraction doesn't set in until higher f-stops, but you're beginning to lose sharpness from other effects, so I'd still call the sweet spot as f/5.6 (which also provides a fairly extensive depth of field) for shots where detail is the primary consideration.For portraits, you'll want to go right for f/1.8 if lighting conditions allow in order to take advantage of the shallow and pleasing DOF isolation this lens is famous for; background blur is very soft yet very strong, while the in focus region remains deep enough to keep the important features of the face in focus from ear to nose. The loss of MTF at f/1.8 is noticeable, especially once you get a feel for how the lens performs at f/5.6, but in my opinion, the compromise is perfectly acceptable in a portrait context. There's another benefit as well; at 85mm, and especially on a crop body like the 40D or 50D, this lens allows you to get some distance from your subject which tends to make them more comfortable, while giving you the modest compression that is the hallmark of any telephoto lens. Portraits \"pop\" and backgrounds blur away with commendable speed. Head-and-shoulders work will put you at about eight feet, and as the lens can focus down to just under three feet, this gives you considerable control over framing without ever running into a limit imposed by the lens design.This is also a truly excellent lens for not-very-wide field astrophotography, although at critical focus and maximum aperture, chromatic aberration will make itself felt on the brightest stars, which you will then have to compensate for. I have successfully used this lens to capture the the Orion nebula, Andromeda galaxy, Triangulum galaxy, and a number of other astro objects that range from the easy to the difficult, all using no more than a standard (non-tracking) tripod, this lens, and the EOS 50D. On a crop body, 85mm (136mm effective FOV) is definitely the place to be to compromise between star trailing and magnification, and the f/1.8 aperture allows fast enough exposures to eliminate trailing at ISO 1600 and above.I carry this lens nested in a large camera bag (a Tamrac 5612 Pro 12, *highly* recommended); I rarely put the lens on the camera until I am ready to use it, and when I am done, I take it right back off, cap it, and bag it without wasting any time or motion. I do both the assembly and disassembly \"blind\" in the bag, using the bag top to shield the camera and lens from the wind and environment as best I can manage. The lens has a raised alignment dot that makes blind assembly practical. It's the size of the overall investment that drives this behavior, of course; both the camera and a lens like this deserves -- demands -- good care and that is just what I try to provide.Physically speaking, this lens isn't as large as you might think. Canon did a great job of packing a lot of glass (nine elements in seven groups) into a decent form factor of 3\" diameter by 2.8\" long; even with the hood mounted, this lens provides a fraction of the intimidation factor of, for instance, the 70-200mm f/2.8L. But at 85mm, it can still \"get in there\" and catch a lot of action without forcing you to crop to extremes. It's light enough that you can shoot for quite a while before fatigue sets in, an issue that will rear its head in any situation that goes on a while, like a wedding or a play (and that low-light capability is great for stage work, where a flash annoys literally everyone.) Plus it is black, and so looks more like it is designed as part of the same camera system, unlike the L's with the white bodies. That's also less distracting in a dark theater.I can honestly say that this is definitely one of my favorite lenses. I have a fair collection of primes to compare it to, some of which are L glass, and I've got some great L zooms as well; yet for portraits, I inevitably turn to this specific lens as it outperforms everything else I own in the successful shooting methodologies I find myself returning to over and over. Frankly, at the price, I think it is perfectly fair to characterize this lens as a \"must-have\"; if you're ever going to shoot a portrait, trust me, this is the lens you want (even over the 85mm f/1.2L, which has far too narrow a depth of field for most reasonable portraiture, though you can't beat it for light-gathering.) Like Canon's 100mm f/2.8 macro lens, the 85mm f/1.8 is one of those where you're left scratching your head as to why it doesn't have an \"L\" designation. It is an outstanding performer.If Canon were to re-do this lens, I'd like to see them add image stabilization, and perhaps some modern anti-CA elements, as this is the one area where this lens occasionally bites the photographer in high-contrast situations. Until that day, though, this lens is unmatched by anything else in Canon's line for price/performance, and I can't imagine anyone ever regretting its purchase.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "One of Canon's best for price/performance", "unixReviewTime": 1227052800, "reviewTime": "11 19, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A1PQK9OTGHDY08", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Ana_y_lat", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "I wanted to upgrade my nifty fifty, and was choosing between 50mm 1.4, this lens (85mm 1.8) and 100mm 2.8 macro (non-L) or 100m 2.While I've yet to try 50mm 1.4, I've read enough reservations about it to decide to pass (especially since at the time I still had 50mm 1.8 in case I needed that focal length), so in the end it came down to 85 or 100.  The macro in 100mm was tempting, even though I'm not a big fan, but it's a fun feature.  85, on the other hand, was faster, and as someone who prefers to shoot with available light, it was a big plus.I ended up deciding that either lens was going to be great, and went with the cheapest, which was 85mm.  It's fantastic.  If you're thinking about upgrading from 50mm 1.8 - you'll be blown away.  It's silent, it's sharper, focuses much better, better color and contrast, beautiful bokeh, a pleasure to handle.I have since tried the 100mm, my friend and I swapped our lenses for a little while, and I must say, I still prefer my 85, and friend now wants one too.I love this lens so much, I've learned to work around certain focal length limitations (I have to move a lot more than with a zoom, and stay further back than with 50mm), so I just sold my 50mm 1.8 because I just could never bring myself to put it on my camera: I figured, I'd rather miss a shot or two due to focal length, but nail 90% of the shots I do take, than get more shots taken, only to throw half of them away because of focus problems.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I'm in love!", "unixReviewTime": 1277596800, "reviewTime": "06 27, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A3GQCYPH9OLHAN", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Andre Malerba", "helpful": [31, 34], "reviewText": "I just got this lens about a month ago and let me say it is probably the best lens you can get for under 400. That is not to say that the under 400 dollar price tag makes it fall into a category with other lens of the same price, because this lens is leagues above most lens at this price. It feels easily as solid as the L glass that ive used, and is small and compact. The AF is super fast (ring type USM, I hate non ring type lens'), and with a 1.8 aperture, you can shoot in really low light. I just used this lens for a college hockey game (notoriously bad lighting) and was able to get some amazing captures. Just to put it in perspective, even a 70-200 f/2.8 would be almost unusable in that light. I was able to shoot as fast as 1/1000 at ISO 800 f/1.8. To be able to shoot with that fast of a shutter speed indoors is amazing. Plus, the 85 is built like a rock, it feels so solid. The first time you pick it up, I promise you will be surprised at how good it feels to hold, especially if you arent used to L glass.Be warned though, this is not a portrait lens! On a 1.6 crop body like the xti it is approx. equal to a 135mm on a full frame. that means you have to stand roughly 13 yards back from a subject to get their whole body into the picture. In a room this lens is very very tight. Shooting from the corner of a rink its perfect for net shots, shooting from the corner of a room doesnt work so well, and thats where you WILL find yourself trying to take people pictures. If you want a portrait go for the 50mm f/1.8 or f/1.4, or even a 35 f/2. But if you are looking for a fast low light sports or concert lens this is it! Some head and shoulder shots are doable, dont get me wrong, but if your main intent is portraits you will be disappointed (as an outdoor lens its fine since you always have enough room but for group shots you will have to stand far away). Otherwise I highly highly recommend this lens...for the price its a must have i feel. Also it has great bokeh!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Get it you wont regret it.", "unixReviewTime": 1197417600, "reviewTime": "12 12, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3MQAQT8C6D1I7", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "AverageReviewer", "helpful": [643, 661], "reviewText": "October 2006 Update:I thought I owed this Lens review an update after shooting with it for almost a couple of years and having the pleasure of shooting with a variety of L Lenses:  70-200L, 16-35L, Fisheye, 50mm and the Kit lens.  This is what I've found:1) Bar none, the best \"portrait\" lens I own.  There's just something about this 85mm focal length + f/1.8 that brings out detail....faces have so much dimension with this lens, they look 3 dimensional.  When I want to get shots of my daughter that amaze, I use this lens.  When I look at my picture archive on my computer, I can easily spot the ones taken with this 85mm.  My friends, some of which who don't know much about photography, pick pictures taken with this lens as their favorites - they ask wow how did you get that picture?  I have a few blown up pictures to 16x20 and 11x14 of my daughter for my parents from this lens which are magnificent.2) I thought that when I bought my 70-200L I would never use my 85mm again, I was wrong.  I routinely find myself putting on the 85mm and shooting pictures with it.  Also, Its much lighter and less imposing than my 70-200L so when I just want amazing portraits, don't need the higher 200mm and don't want the weight, and want a real shallow depth of feel and out of focus backgrounds, I go for the 85mm.3) I also have a 16-35mm L which I use quite a bit for inside shots and panoramas which stays on my camera most of the time but there's just a special look to the longer mm rating that you get which makes portraits just work better with the 85mm - so when I take off the 16-35, I usually mount this 85mm.4) I really thought that between the 16-35mm L and the 70-200L, I'd never ever use the 85mm, I was wrong.  There are wonderful advantages to this lens which make it a keeper for me....the construction on this lens has held up very well, after years it looks brand new.  I do have a UV/Haze filter that I use as a protector I got from Amazon (about $25) - great value.There's allot to be said for a non \"L\" lens which consistently winds up on my camera when I own several \"L\"s which cover the mm of this lens.  To me, its an L: built like an L, color and saturation comparable to an L  It's my \"L\" lens that doesn't have a red stripe.Original Review:I bought a 20D recently with the 18-55mm kit lens and to start out I bought a 50mm f/1.8 lens which really got me interested in the faster f/stops to blur backgrounds and take pictures in lower light.  My kit lens was not fast enough (hard to blur background and hard to take pictures in low light) and both the kit lens and 50mm lens did not have Ultrasonic which made me miss focus more often with moving targets.I looked quite a bit and found the 85mm f/1.8 lens.  Although Amazon only had a few reviews, the photography forums I found were buzzing about how this lens should've been labeled an L lens.  Pros might know why but 90% of the reviews I read said it was comparable to an L lens in quality and that it was very affordable.I bought this lens and I have to tell you, I was very impressed with it right from the start.  On construction, its heavier than the kit lens and the plastic 50mm II lens.  It has a metal mount and very solid construction.  If you look through it you can see allot of glass which tells you it has a wide aperture and consequently its much heavier than the kit lens or 50mm lens.  But...its heavy in a good way.  It balances the camera and makes it look like a real camera.So what's good about this lens?  For one, you can take great pictures in low light with the f/1.8.  I photographed a stage play handheld with this lens and no flash (non allowed) and I got tremendous results.  Ultrasonic helped with every picture in focus and all very sharp with vibrant colors, very nice saturation, and I used ISO 400 and I could even freeze the action on stage.As a portrait lens, it really can blow the backgrounds into a very nice buttery blokeh and with the Ultrasonic - I haven't missed focus once.  Its also wonderful for inside pictures with no flash.  The F/1.8 is really versatile.A few notes.  If you're going to get a 70-200 L zoom lens, you might wind up not using this lens as much but for parties, its allot less intimidating than a big white lens.  I hear this lens was designed a long time ago and not really designed for digital and that some strange effects can be seen with it on digitals.  I have not gone looking nor experienced any of these.  Its just a tremendous value at $350.  I was not able to use this lens as a macro as it was not designed as such but I have thought of putting an extension tube on it to see what I get but haven't done so yet.Constructed Solid.  Solid feel, smooth focusing ring, distance window, autofocus with a real Ring USM.  Five Stars!  Amazon shipped fast on this for me - Great store.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A Real Lens!", "unixReviewTime": 1122163200, "reviewTime": "07 24, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A4WEZJOIZIV4U", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Chuck Bittner \"Disabled comedian & gamer!\"", "helpful": [11, 13], "reviewText": "A lens like this is a must-have type lens in my opinion. If you're new to digital photography with digital SLR's you're going to want a lens with a low f-stop a.k.a. a faster lens and this is a perfect lens to leave on your camera at all times. Most people like to have a zoom lens on their camera but I'm of the opinion you can always walk closer or further from your subject but a zoom lens will never have this good of an f-stop. And while this lens is expensive ($400 at the time of this review) I'm sure it will become your default lens after only a month of shooting with it.You should always buy a UV filter to protect the glass on any lens you have. This in my opinion is the one thing everybody who purchases an expensive lens should do. UV filters don't affect the photographs you take but it's a layer of plastic between the scratchable glass and the world around you. It's a MUST BUY.Here I'll explain how the f-stop or aperture priority works on digital SLR cameras. Basically the aperture is a circle inside the lens that as you go up in your f-stop from 1.8 to 2.2 to 3.0 and beyond it shrinks the size of this circle in the lens. The shrinking of the circle from a higher f-stop allows less light to pass through to the sensor. The lower the f-stop i.e. 1.8 allows you to shoot at faster shutter speeds in low light situations because the circle in the lens allows more light to pass through because of the lower aperture. Here's an example say are in a well lit room and you're shooting your child (yes that sounds very weird but it's a funny joke anyway). Generally indoors you need to shoot at 1/60 of a second with most lenses they'll instantly autofocus at their lowest f-stop which would be about 4.0. But with this lens since it can go down to 1.8 on the f-stop you could shoot the same picture at 1/125 shutter speed. Resulting in about the same light but avoiding any motion blur that plagues low light photography. Now needs to be noted that as you drop your f-stop you lose depth of field. I.e. how much of your photo will be in focus and how much will be blurred. It's the effect you see on portraits where the person is in focus but the background is blurry.Now I know many people will probably shoot holes in the foregoing explanation of f-stop but I'm not a really advanced photographer but I get how shutter speed and aperture priority work with each other. Buying a lens like this can only help somebody understand how both are related and work together.Here's what I recommend that you do:1. Enable manual mode on your camera this mode allows you to set both the aperture for the lens a.k.a. the f-stop and the shutter speed a.k.a. how long the shutter is opened while taking a photograph.2. Drop the aperture or f-stop to 1.8 on this lens3. Set your shutter speed to 1/60 of a second4. take a picture5. Look at your photograph notice how much is dark and light about it how sharp it is etc.6. Go up to the next shutter speed 1/90th of the second or 1/125 and take another photograph.7. now compare both of the photographs you took8. to change the shutter speed again going up another step taken other photograph now compare all three photographsIf you continue to do this adjust shutter speed while knowing what your aperture is you're going to notice how shutter speed affects the lighting of your photographs all you need to do then is start changing your aperture and repeat the process of stepping through your shutter speeds eventually you'll understand how the aperture works in correlation with shutter speed. I became a proficient photographer using manual controls in less than a month just by doing this simple practice. I would recommend starting outdoors on a well lit day because then you will see how you can adjust your aperture and your shutter speeds to really make good photographs.That's the reason I recommend this lens so highly as it helps you as a beginning photographer to create photographs because the lower f-stop helps you experiment and instantly see your results.Thanks for reading it this was helpful please click the button so others can see it.If you have any questions leave a comment on this review and I'll get back to you if I can help.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "F-stop tips for this great lens.", "unixReviewTime": 1389052800, "reviewTime": "01 7, 2014"}
{"reviewerID": "A2AY4YUOX2N1BQ", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Ciaran", "helpful": [28, 32], "reviewText": "I am primarily a wedding photographer, but I do shoot portraiture now and then (especially engagement shoots), and so I have divided my review accordingly into those two categories. If possible, I would have given this a 4.5 star review as for my specific needs this lens is not ideal. In it's own right however, it is a great lens as I will explain below.GENERALIn general, this is a great lens. The optical quality is fantastic, it is built like a tank, and any photographer will tell you that the 85mm focal length is definitely the sweet spot for portraits. The bokeh is creamy wide open, and definitely higher quality that the 50mm 1.8 or even the 50mm 1.4. When stopped down a little, the images it produces are quite sharp, have very decent color (if a TINY bit dull in some situations) and I like that it produces such powerful results in a relatively small package.FOR PORTRAITUREThis is probably the best non-L glass around for portraits, and I would venture to say that in the right hands it can produce L-quality results. As I mentioned, the bokeh alone makes this an incredible choice for your portraits, whether with just one subject or a couple. What I like especially about the 85mm range, is that you have to be pretty far back from your subject for a traditional head-and-shoulders portrait, which I have found makes people feel quite relaxed especially those uncomfortable around a camera. I always use a manual focus point for portraits, focusing in on my subject's eye before snapping the shot. In a relaxed environment such as this, the lens works perfectly and turns out great results...FOR WEDDING PHOTOGRAPHYYou might not think it, but Wedding Photography is one of the fastest paced photography categories, barring sports. The need to capture THAT moment in fact defines this profession, and therefore we wedding photographers need our gear to act right, and at the right time. Whether memory cards, DSLR cache or in this case lens focusing systems, it really irks me when I don't get the shot that I wanted. I have found when shooting weddings that this lens is less than ideal. I like to shoot without flash 95% of the time (venue allowing) and so all of my lenses are wide aperture such as this. The problem is, the focusing system on the 85mm is a little slow, so that I frequently noticed images coming out soft to the point of being blurry, as I don't have the time to wait for it to catch up. Initially thinking this might be a calibration problem, both my 1Ds MkII and my 85mm 1.8 went in for testing/calibration at Canon, both coming back with the okay. I tried a friend's copy of the lens, and came back with similar results. There are several forums that discuss this topic, and I found that many photographers found this same caveat with their lenses. When it does focus, it is spot on every time, but when the couple is having their first kiss, often you don't have more than a second or two to get it right.OVERALLIf you are looking for a good portrait lens, are a beginner or novice user, you are absolutely going to love this lens. Even some pros will enjoy it in many situations. If you are specifically a wedding photographer, or someone who shoots faster-paced scenes, you might want to look at a different lens. On paper, this lens should work for these uses, but in real life, I have found it to be less than ideal. This lens has earned a permanent spot in my gear bag, and I use it often and with pleasure, it does not however make appearances at weddings unless the bride and groom set aside a couple of hours for bridals, which doesn't happen all that often!4.5/5", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Review from a wedding photographer", "unixReviewTime": 1331596800, "reviewTime": "03 13, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "AK6QNJR57D50M", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "dan", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "The pros and cons of this lens have been thoroughly debated already, but one significant weakness that I wasn't expecting was purple fringing on the boarders of high contrast areas. I planned on using this for wedding photography, but at f 2.2 and below I would get thick purple fringing around candles (or pretty much any light), around the brides dress, and basically any other high contrast transition. It wasn't every shot, two shots of the same subject, and same lighting would produce different fringing from different angles.The fringing was so bad that on a 22mp 5dmii image processed in ACR CS5 with \"defringe all edges\" set to ON, I have 3/4 length shots of a bride where there is still a visible purple ring around most of her dress when viewed at an 8x10 size (not pixle peeping).... but 2 seconds later I took a similar shot from a different angle and got no fringe.I may have had an unusually bad copy of this lens, but I would recommend to either rent this lens or buy it from a place like amazon where there is a good return policy, and try it under all the conditions you hope to use it. You may be very happy... or you may realize that you need to upgrade to the 1.2L", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "beware the purple fringe", "unixReviewTime": 1287792000, "reviewTime": "10 23, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "AJSGH34DBQGXA", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "D. Ohnemus", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "This is the best dollar value in Canon lenses I think. I have several of L series lenses and love them dearly but this lens is a better dollar for dollar value. Unless you really need the 1.2 for ultra low light the money is hard to justify.The lens isn't at it's sharpest at 1.8 but by the time you get to 2.0 or 2.2 it is unbelievable.  This lens will take you leaps ahead in portraits. If you need this size lens try it before you plunk down the big bucks for the L lens.Of course that is just my opinion.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great lens", "unixReviewTime": 1178496000, "reviewTime": "05 7, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "ALYU98KL3VUGF", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Enche Tjin", "helpful": [11, 12], "reviewText": "Canon EF 85mm f/1.8 USM Telephoto Lens for Canon SLR Camerasis probably the best value Canon lens. The quality of the image is very good, big aperture allow low light hand held shot and create a shallow depth of field. The auto focus is quiet and very fast.Build quality of this lens is very good, feels very solid and definitely a step up from kit lens. It is relatively short and light weight compared to general purpose lens (3.0\" x 2.8\", 15.0 oz. / 75.0 x 71.5mm, 425g).Application of this lens will be portrait, indoor sport (basketball, volleyball), art performance and candid photography.Using this lens for soft and sharp images* Wide open at f/1.8, this lens is soft but create a very nice 'bokeh' great for girls portraits.* at f/2.8, the center of the image is very sharp, my favorite setting for general portraits and sports.* at f/4 and above, the image is very sharp edge to edge, especially f/8 where you get the maximum sharpness.There is nothing that I can complain about this lens at this price point because it has very good built quality, excellent in low light especially freezing motion, and awesome for portraits. It worth every penny. I recommend this lens in addition to your general purpose kit lens.Image Quality : Excellent 4/5Build Quality : Very Good 4/5Price value: 5/5[...].", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Affordable medium telephoto for portrait or sports", "unixReviewTime": 1235865600, "reviewTime": "03 1, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A2CN3OQVQ4AZ6", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Eric Radman", "helpful": [22, 89], "reviewText": "I tried this lens on a Canon Digital Rebel XT.  I'm amazed at all of the positive reviews.  My results were very disappointing. Maybe I had a defective lens, but I don't think so.  Great Bokeh. Fast Lens. However, this lens had a VERY DIFFICULT time focusing on a subject. Auto focus was way off. Even in manual mode, getting a sharp focus was a real challenge at F1.8 or 2.8.  I switched my Canon Digital XT camera to spot center focusing and still had a difficult time getting a sharp image after taking many pictures. I would recommend testing this lens out before purchasing.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Going against the trend on this lens", "unixReviewTime": 1179100800, "reviewTime": "05 14, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2F4ASFPWFGWJG", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Eric Strate Photography", "helpful": [64, 69], "reviewText": "Before I get into the review, let me give a quick primer on Canon lenses for those of you who may be looking at this lens for your first Canon and are not really familiar with the \"L-series...\" comment in my review title.  Canon lenses can be grouped into 3 basic categories - EF and EF-S non USM, EF and EF-S with USM, and L.  The EF-S lenses are specifically designed for Canon cameras using the APS-C sensor (the Rebels, the 7D, the 10/20/30/40/50D).  The non-USM versions of these lenses are traditionally considered 'kit lenses' (ones that are packaged with cameras - for example the 18-55 EF-S or the 55-250 EF-S that often come with the Rebel series) and are traditionally considered 'beginner' lenses.  They lack the ultrasonic motor driven autofocus (USM) and they aren't manufactured to the same optical standards as Canon's better lenses - this isn't a knock on the lenses, because the fact is that Canon needs a series of lenses that fit the specific price range these lenses occupy. For the casual photographer these lenses perform great.  From these you move into the EF or EF-S USM lenses that use the ultrasonic motor driven autofocus - they are quieter, faster focusing, and also a bit more solidly constructed.  Consider these the 'mid-range' lenses in terms of price and performance, with some lenses in this category excelling to the point where they could be used without any reservation in professional settings.  Finally you have the L-series - these are Canon's top of the line lenses (when you watch a sporting event and notice the sea of white/cream colored lenses on the photographer's cameras you are seeing L-series glass in action).  I own several L-series lenses, with my favorite being the 24-70 F2.8 (read my review on it if you are interested in this lens).  These lenses are expensive - prohibitively expensive to many - but if you can save up for one, you won't regret the purchase.  Note that this little primer didn't mention image stabilization - this feature can be found in each category of lens - I tend to think that people put too much emphasis on it, but it can certainly be useful.Now, on to this lens.  The 85mm F1.8 would fit into that 'mid-range' category in regards to its price. Performance-wise, however, this lens is professional grade without question.  It's L-series counterpart, the 85mm F1.2 is about $1300 more expensive - and while the jump to a max aperture of 1.2 is nice, many people just don't see it as being worth the additional cost when compared to this lens.The 85 F1.8 is pin sharp across its entire aperture range, producing beautifully blurred backgrounds and extremely shallow depth of field at F1.8 on both full frame cameras like the 5D and 1Ds series and on crop factor bodies as well.  It is a hugely popular portrait lens - I'd go so far as to say it is a \"must own\" for a portrait photographer. At F1.8 it produces crisp eyes in portraits with silky smooth backgrounds - turning something as simple as the front yard into a perfect backdrop for a portrait. For beginners - the number after the \"F\" is the aperture - the lower the number, the wider the hole the light goes through and thus the more of the lens that is used.  Many lenses tend to be a bit softer when they are set to the max aperture for that lens because it requires more of the lens to be used in focusing the image, letting imperfections at the edges of the lens come into play and impact sharpness.  I've been extremely pleased with the sharpness of this lens its max aperture.Additionally - on a crop factor body like the Rebel series (or the 50D or 7D), this lens has an effective focal range of 136mm (85 x 1.6 = 136 - contact me personally if you need help understanding why I did this calculation - you can get my email address by going to my website - [...]).  This makes it a decent mid range telephoto lens with - being able to shoot at 136mm at F1.8 is great for indoor sports photography such as basketball.  Again, for beginners, the more light your lens can let in (the lower the max aperture number) the faster your shutter speed can be indoors.All in all, this lens is extremely versatile.  This lens and the 100mm F2.8 macro (the older version) are the two non-L series lenses that I have no reservations using in ANY professional situation.  I cannot recommend it enough and if you plan on doing any portrait photography you owe it to yourself to pick this lens up.  For the price, its performance simply cannot be beat.I'm happy to answer any and all questions (that I can) about this lens or cameras and lenses in general.  Again, my email address can be found at my website.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "L-series performance at non L-series price", "unixReviewTime": 1276732800, "reviewTime": "06 17, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A1E0VFA8L59Y8M", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Fernando Albuquerque", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "I needed a lens to take photos under the following conditions:1 - Artificial lighting.2 - Subject located less than 20 meters from the camera.3 - Camera with a 1.6 crop factor (APS-C sized sensor).4 - No flash.5 - Shutter speed of 1/100 (or faster) to freeze action.6 - ISO not over 800 to minimize noise.7 - Indoor sport (Judo).Before choosing the Canon 85mm 1.8, I had read several lens reviews.Most reviews recommended this lens for portraits and indoor events.I choose this lens because of:1 - Good reviews.2 - Fair price.3 - Maximum aperture of 1.8.After several photos with this lens, I have the following observations:1 - This lens is solidly built and deserves good recommendations.2 - Most photos were sharp and required almost no post-processing.3 - Post-processing usually consisted of minor adjustments and cropping.4 - Considering the above settings, the aperture ranged from 1.8 to 2.5.5 - Since this lens is a prime, you get better results moving around.6 - The focus mechanism is fast and silent.Considering my application, I am satisfied with the Canon 85mm 1.8.Please note that I am an amateur, not a professional photographer.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent fast medium telephoto lens.", "unixReviewTime": 1322956800, "reviewTime": "12 4, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A2ECT81F3TLWSL", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "K. Warkman", "helpful": [11, 13], "reviewText": "I have this lens for about 1 month now on my EOS 20D. I am just an amateur enthusiast but I am very pleased with it's performance.  This lens is really sharp.  I use it mostly for taking head shot photos and get great professional looking pictures.  The background blur is awesome.  When friends and family view the pictures taken with this lens they are amazed at how they look like they were taken professionally.  The only minor gripe I have would be when used on a DSLR with a 1.6x crop factor is you have to stand far from the subject to fit the subject into the frame. Like I said minor.  But, I'm taking care of that by purchasing the Canon 50mm f/1.8 lens.  What the heck for only $70.00 why not?", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Professional looking head shots", "unixReviewTime": 1127174400, "reviewTime": "09 20, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1BAB2WMAN3IFS", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Macburger52", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "As a photo enthusiast who owns five Canon lenses (two zooms, three primes), and who uses a Rebel T3i, I hesitated to buy this lens at first. What would I use it for? I already had a Canon 50mm f/1.8 that took great portraits (and still does). Yet I wanted something more \"serious\" and more telephoto for intimate portraits, nature close-ups, and goofing around. So I bought it and have no regrets whatsoever. I use this lens mainly for outdoor nature photography, close-cropped pics of foliage, sunsets, rivers, bridges, wild flowers, trails, even old farm equipment.I call this lens \"The Mystical 85\" because it slows me down, forces me to compose a more thoughtful picture and really think about what I'm doing. I almost always use my tripod with this lens, and the photos are incredibly tack sharp. The color saturation will knock your socks off. I almost never do any post-processing with pictures taken on this lens. When people see the pictures I take with this lens they almost always say, \"These are professional pictures! What kind of camera do you use?\" So I tell them I work for National Geographic. (Just kidding).Anyway, if all you want to do is take high quality photos in a point-and-shoot type of way, don't buy this lens. You don't need it. Canon makes a great all-purpose lens (the EF-S 18-135mm) that will meet your walkaround needs for general shooting. I love that lens, too, but if you want to step it up a notch and get a more serious lens for indoor and outdoor, telephoto, portrait, and creative nature shots, get this lens (and a tripod), and have fun exploring all your mystical instincts!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "\"The Mystical 85\"--fantastic lens!", "unixReviewTime": 1338595200, "reviewTime": "06 2, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A1977GWEGAYE2N", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Marvin Migl", "helpful": [25, 29], "reviewText": "Bought this lens a few months back and shot volleyball with it, occasionally used it for football when it got dark.What can I say or add to other reviews?? F/1.8 is great, although the lens is sharper at f/2 or 2.2. I use it near the wide open edge all the time - indoor gyms simply do not have much light.The USM autofocus is great - demoing it in the store, it seemed to nearly anticipate my actions. No rotating front filter, and it doesn't protrude, either. It's got a full time manual focus ring, so I don't have to worry about killing my autofocus  motor. In combination with c.Fn 4-1, this is killer.Why the four stars? Chromatic aberration at lower apertures. I do not know where it starts to go away, because I almost never shoot in good light. This was most apparent in a shot of a recent football game. Granted, the team's jerseys were white, and the background was the pitch black of an unlit parking lot, and I had to perform a 100% crop. Nevertheless, an alien-like purple halo surrounded the huddled offensive team. Oh well, you can't have it all!As for volleyball pics, this is the lens. I regularly shoot at f/2.2, ISO 1600, and 1/500, but I might change that soon because that is pushing it. The photos are pretty sharp and the USM definitely helps here. I bought this lens because my 50mm 1.8 just wasn't cutting it - I'd get shots with a tack sharp background and a beautifully bokeh'd subject - just the opposite of what it should be. Using the 85mm removed about 85% of those shots. There are still extreme instances when I swing my camera around and instantly shoot when the USM can't keep up, but there are other instances when I am amazed that it got the shot in focus. From the sidelines, 85mm is too long to get the outside hitter nearest to you, but that's why you move around! Shooting volleyball requires a strategy.The focal length is also good on my 350d for shooting events and staying a bit back from the subject.I'm overall pretty pleased with the lens. I can see what many people call this a \"hidden L lens.\"", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "THE lens to have for volleyball", "unixReviewTime": 1163203200, "reviewTime": "11 11, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2SHQJP6PNQTLD", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "M. H. Bayliss \"book queen\"", "helpful": [37, 41], "reviewText": "I just bought two high quality lenses for my Digital Rebel and what a difference this makes over the kit lens which I wish I hadn't bought.  I bought this one mostly for indoor and outdoor portraits of my kids and dogs.  It is just amazing!  I was surprised by how much difference a good lens can make.  I've been playing around and I took tons of shots of my kids today and the portraits are amazingly clear with GREAT background blur -- I feel like a pro.  If you use the aperature priority setting and play around, you'll see that you too can make professional level background blur even if you barely know what you are doing (this would be me).  In short, invest in a good lens.  Don't forget to multiply the focal length by 1.6 if you have a digital canon camera -- 85 mm is really 135mm or so, really a telephoto type lens. Great for portraits!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "This lens makes me look good", "unixReviewTime": 1107561600, "reviewTime": "02 5, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1HTB488P5GRCP", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Roy", "helpful": [57, 65], "reviewText": "Probably the best lens for the money from Canon. Good build quality, very fast and quiet AF thanks to ring USM, good bokeh (background blurring), good color and contrast. Sure it is not as good as 135/2L or 200/1.8L, but at this price range you cannot find a 2nd lens come close in picture quality and overall performance. I have several Canon lenses and this one provide the best price/performance ratio. This should be on top of your lens list if you are considering EOS system.Pros:Sharp even at f/1.8, very sharp @f/2.8Very fast (f/1.8) for the money.Very fast and quiet AF thanks to Ring USM.Good build quality.Good picture quality.Cons:No bag come with lens.No lens hood.135/2L is still a better choice for portrait if you have the space for it.Canon should have put a red ring, L aka, on it to let let us feel even better.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best Canon lens for the money.", "unixReviewTime": 1101859200, "reviewTime": "12 1, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "AHWBKTWFD46UI", "asin": "B00007GQLU", "reviewerName": "Samurai Girl", "helpful": [10, 11], "reviewText": "Yes, you want this lens, (or the \"L\"-glass version, if your wallet can afford the $1700 plus cost-this \"non-L\" version is around $350) even if you have something that covers this range. This is some finely crafted glass, and a best buy in terms of cost-to-benefit ratio. You get speed, DOF control, beautiful bokeh, and it's darn cheap to get into the whole world of protraiture, if you think about it.You want this for portraits. Everybody and everything from your dog to the Queen of E looks silkier, more soulful and more loveable with this lens. It's perfect on a Canon 5D.People say that it's not the equipment-it's the photographer. But, in this case, it really is the equipment. You can do natural-light photography under difficult and trying conditions, and you've got plenty of room to spare in the ISO, aperture and shutter speeds, because this lens is so fast and responsive. The lens is light and portable so you can take it everywhere. Once you \"get\" the feel of the fixed focal distance you just intuitively snap pics of the sweetest sweetness. Seriously, my friends think I'm a good photographer. Between you and I it's just that this lens rocks!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best Buy!", "unixReviewTime": 1213660800, "reviewTime": "06 17, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A33G2V3MN59LQX", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "Alan Somers", "helpful": [16, 20], "reviewText": "When I first took these headphones out of the packaging, I was a little concerned that the ear pieces were too small to make a seal good enough for noise cancellation to work.  Well, my fears were unfounded.  They seal very well against my ears and are very comfortable.  I found the padding on the headband to be a nice touch, too.I haven't had a chance to try these in a noisy environment, but I can tell that they'll work well based on the way my own voice is attenuated with the circuit engaged and a significant amount of the sound coming from my stereo played through its regular speakers is also cut out.  The quality of the sound playing through the headphones with noise-canceling engaged is quite good, with only a barely perceptable hiss with no audio playing.The biggest factor in choosing these headphones vs. other noise-canceling headphones is the way in which they fold up.  They fit perfectly in the back pocket of my PowerBook's sleeve case.  I would highly recommend them for travel use, especially if carrying capacity is limited.Update: I've had a chance to use these headphones on a few flights and they do an excellent job of reducing the engine noise.  I wish they didn't have the big \"dongle\", but I'm quite satisfied with them, especially for the price.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Very comfortable and work well", "unixReviewTime": 1097884800, "reviewTime": "10 16, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A2IIXSXLLQHRH7", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "A. Marks", "helpful": [10, 13], "reviewText": "I've got an aswsome Powerbook which is great for watching DVDs on planes, except the plane noise is so loud, it's really hard to hear the sound... until now.  The coolest thing about these headphones is how brilliently they cancel the sound you don't want so you can hear the sound you do want.  I love listening to music when I travel, so to me they're totally worth it.  They're also well-made and comfortable.However, if all you want is to cancel out the drone of engines or the annoying chatter &amp; clatter of other people, earplugs really do work just as well.  I know, b/c I've got a noisy upstairs neighbor and wear them all the time, and used to wear them on flights regularly.  My favorite brand is called &quot;Hearos&quot; which you can get at record stores &amp; drug stores.  Be sure you read the directions for how to put them in.The only downside to earplugs is that some people find them uncomfortable and -- I just learned this the hard way -- if you're wearing them on a plane, DO NOT TAKE THEM OUT when the plane starts to descend... OUCH!  It really, really hurt when I did that.Don't get me wrong, the headphones will block out sound too, but it's a lot of money for a technology that really isn't more efficient than sticking foam in your ears.If you want to listen to Music, however -- then they're pretty fab.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great For Music on Plane; Otherwise Earplugs Work Same", "unixReviewTime": 1086048000, "reviewTime": "06 1, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "AYTSQHF8MK44T", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "Amazonian \"over the top\"", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "Sennheiser, of course, is the first name in super high quality mikes and headphones.  Recently I was on a flight and the fellow sitting next to me had a pair of the large Bose noise cancelling headphones.  He let me try them on and, basically I didn't want to give them back.Airplane noise almost always gives me a bad headache and I could tell in just a few seconds that Bose were really great headphones.  I could tell that with noise cancelling headphones the headaches would be a thing of the past...Fastforward to a month ago. I found the Sennheisers and bought them without even listening to them.  They are every bit as good as the Bose. Each has its own personality, but they are both really nice. On my last flight I had a very very noisy seat.  Engine noise was terrible... plus there were two screaming babies. Out came the PXC250s and the rest was shear bliss.I noted a couple issues that others have written about.  One person writes that the battery control unit makes noise when he hits it. The owners manual points out that that this crackling noise may occur with dirty battery contacts.  Remove the batteries and rub them on a rough surface and replace them in the unit, according to the manual.Another person wrote that there was some interference with cell phones.  The 250s are optimized for airplanes (no cell phones).  The model 300's have an anti-cell phone circuit.For me I use these only on the plane.  Headaches are gone... wow these really are fantastic.  Also, the sound of these headphones is pure Sennheiser.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "fantastic!", "unixReviewTime": 1171238400, "reviewTime": "02 12, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3AGSFLNNIFKNJ", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "Benjamin M. Bethel \"Owner/General Manager - T...", "helpful": [14, 25], "reviewText": "I've been searching for a pair of headphones with noise cancellation and great sound... they're all 'not that great'.  The sound level is too low, there's no bass (especially with the noise cancellation off, only a bit better with it on), etc.  Instead, I'm switching back to my Koss PortaPro headphones... they're AMAZING, a lot less money, don't require batteries... and believe me, no matter how ugly they look, they're almost as great as $400 over the ear giant audiophile headphones.... I'm super happy with the Koss PortaPro, but not all that happy with these.... actually, I'm quite disappointed in them!", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Not worth it...", "unixReviewTime": 1157068800, "reviewTime": "09 1, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A31JTKBQRVQ83G", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "B. McEwan \"yellokat\"", "helpful": [24, 28], "reviewText": "I bought these headphones to use with my new portable when I'm walking around the city and on airplanes.  I also thought I'd try them on the NYC subway system, which is about the most demanding test I can think of, but I didn't have much hope for them working too well on the trains.  In fact, they are pretty good in the subway, which is saying a lot given the racket down there, and for walking around town they are exceptional.I sat in a park near one of the city highways and listened to a selection of various music styles, all of which sounded very good, even the soft classical pieces.  The Sennheisers were very effective at eliminating the hum of highway traffic, and also cut about 70% of the noise from helicopters and boat traffic on the nearby river.  If these work this well in the city, I can only imagine how much better my next airplane ride is going to be.Now for the small annoyance:  There are a lot of cords to deal with, as there are two different lines running out of each side of the headset and also a third line that runs out of the powerpack.  Plus, the powerpack is somewhat bulky, which was a hassle when I tried to wear the headphones while exercising.  But the excellent performance and the reasonable price make the cord issue one that's worth dealing with.Speaking of price, these headphones are definitely a great value.  I paid $103. for them on sale on Amazon -- a significant savings from what they go for in retail stores and far less than the cost of the Bose headset that I originally wanted.  While I can believe that the Bose are a bit more effective at filtering out some sounds, the Sennheisers are more than adequate for my purposes -- and for only a third the price of the Bose.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great sound, reasonable price, small annoyance", "unixReviewTime": 1083542400, "reviewTime": "05 3, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A2G5ZTMSRJLAXL", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "cfcubed \"cfcubed\"", "helpful": [11, 12], "reviewText": "I have the Bose Quiet Comfort I headphones (was sort of a company bonus a few years ago) & use them pretty much daily @ work & for flights.  We work in a kinda noisy environment & I bought a pair of these PXC 250s for a co-worker as my company is not handing out toys these days...So, I tried these & did A/B comparisions w/the Bose & while the Bose do sound better, these Sennheisers hold their own against the Bose & are a good deal at around 1/2 the cost.  If you have no NC headphones & want them for a noisy office or flights (& have to spend your own $$s for them), I'd recommend these 250s.BTW, I leave the Bose QCs @ work & just bought Sennheiser PX100s for (infrequent) home use... I cannot recommend the PX100s (too bright), these 250s have a more balanced sound, even a bit bassy w/QC on.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Good noise reduction, comfortable and well worth $100 (the refurbs)", "unixReviewTime": 1123718400, "reviewTime": "08 11, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AWLL3L9CP6NE0", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "Derg", "helpful": [19, 21], "reviewText": "I make a few trips to Europe each year and lately found it hard to sleep and got head aches watching the movies and having to blast the sound to hear them.  I purchased these and I am very pleased.  Now when I watch the movies the volume is down to the lowest possible setting and I hear everything.  They also help when not watching the movie just to quite things down.  They fold up nice as well.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Should have purchased these 4 trips ago", "unixReviewTime": 1133222400, "reviewTime": "11 29, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "ANOEOHRLK11P0", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "D L", "helpful": [11, 12], "reviewText": "I read a review in which the reviewer compared these to the Sony MDR-7506's in music performance and was doubtful. But, I thought, even if they are somewhat close, that's pretty good, too. In fact a miracle, because I've never liked the sound of Sennheiser 'phones. Always lifeless and thin... until I heard these, that is.For the first few months I really liked these noise-canceling headphones.They sounded very good, although a bit \"boosted\" with the circuitry turned on, and a bit \"muted\" with it off... but the noise-canceling really worked and helped to shut out the dreadful early-morning conversations in our vanpool vanI was always careful to fold them up and put them into their travel case at the end of each session- and that turned out to be their undoing.Looking back on it, I now realize that flexing the cords (as I folded the unit into its case) was slowly ruining the internal connections inside (or the wires leading to) the battery pack. Finally one day, I got a very loud crackle-racket when listening, every time I'd bend the wires going into the battery pack.It got worse and worse until now, if you dare turn on the circuitry, you will get the crackle-racket (at about 100dB) without even moving the wires.I did take the unit apart to try to secure the connections but it made no difference. Total time they were good: about 6 months.4.5 stars for sound quality and canceling, 1 star for durability!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Started out great, then the connections started to go bad...", "unixReviewTime": 1113091200, "reviewTime": "04 10, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2OFXG4ZWXNYST", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "Dom Villari \"Dom\"", "helpful": [11, 15], "reviewText": "Aside from the awkwardness of the battery pack and \"ok sound,\" this unit just broke after only about a year of use.  Very disappointed - expected a lot more from the Seinheiser brand.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Broke after 1 year", "unixReviewTime": 1182816000, "reviewTime": "06 26, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A93NUQAQIGU6G", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "Flippers", "helpful": [15, 17], "reviewText": "I travel a LOT!  These are much less expensive than the Bose and work great at cutting the hum of jet engines and airflow inside the cabin.  Since they don't cut higher pitch sounds, you can still hear the attendant when she wants to know what beverage you want.  They do not have full ear cups so they aren't as hot to wear as the Bose and they fold up nicely into a neat little pouch with a zipper side pocket for an extra battery and the accesories. I have room for a small mp3 player in the bag too. Warning:  The belt loop on the little pouch is WEAK!  Don't put this on your carry-on bag strap and expect to keep the phones very long.  PUT THE POUCH inside YOUR BAG!!  I almost lost my whole set-up on only my 2nd trip.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great on Airplanes", "unixReviewTime": 1104883200, "reviewTime": "01 5, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1S38ULK1BZIQK", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "Island Tractor", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "I decided to get a set of noise canceling headphones as I take long haul flights regularly.  I looked briefly at the Bose products but decided they were not so superior to these Sennheisers as to justify the triple price.  I've used the PXC250 now on seven or eight long flights and find them great.  I had an interesting in flight comparison opportunity recently on British Air Club class as they provide their own unnamed brand of noise canceling headphones.  The audio performance was better with the PXC250 as was the comfort.  The noise canceling was about equal.  Overall, I have zero complaints and think these are a great bang for the buck.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great value and performance", "unixReviewTime": 1174953600, "reviewTime": "03 27, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2Z3IXZ17E88J4", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "James Tepper \"&#34;Are we there yet&#34;\"", "helpful": [24, 26], "reviewText": "I bought these 6 months ago, just before a plane trip, to use with my computer.  They are lightweight, comfortable, and sound pretty good for collapsible portable headphones.  Then I turned on the noise cancellation switch on the small cigar sized and shaped battery compartment.  Whoopeee!  The sound, particulary the bass, got substantially better and clearer. When I got on an airplane a couple of weeks later I had the same Yahoo experience.  The headphones (with the noice cancellation engaged) made listening to airplane audio much, much better, and also cut out a substantial (perhaps 50-70%) amount of the low frequency airplane noise.  You can even use them for that purpose without listening to any audio source.  For the money, a great buy.  Good for everyday use around the home, and great for airplanes, trains or buses.  I'd buy them again.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent lightweight noise cancellation headphones", "unixReviewTime": 1093996800, "reviewTime": "09 1, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "AFG1RHLO2TQD1", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "Lauren Gale", "helpful": [20, 21], "reviewText": "Flying can be VERY loud.  For that very reason, I wanted to buy the Bose QuietComfort2, but I'm not rich enough to think spending $300 on earphones (WITHOUT an iPod connected to it) is sane.  I reviewed customer reviews on noise canceling headphones for a few days before I decided on the Sennheiser's.  I am EXTREMELY happy with my choice, and I can tell you why: 1) they are 1/3 the price of the good Bose; 2) when I was on the plane, the airline offered Bose Headphones (and I think they really are the QuietComfort) and I took them, just for comparison.  The Sennheiser's completely blew those out of the water (and to be fair, the Bose given to me on the plane were probably constantly used, thereby affecting their performance).  3) Because the ear piece is round on the Sennheiser, you may wear your earphones in almost any position, however on Bose that is not possible because of the oval shape of the earphone.  4) The earphones didn't disturb me when sleeping.  They were very comfortable and stayed on my ears.I do have 2 complaints though.  1) There isn't a volume control on the `remote' and 2) the remote can not be moved while noise canceling is on, it creates noticeable noise.  I probably wouldn't used these on a bus or subway, and I definitely would not use then while working out, but they're perfect for an airplane.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "GREAT for the plane...", "unixReviewTime": 1142899200, "reviewTime": "03 21, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A8TZ88OM8YOLW", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "MartyHansen", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "I bought these Sennheiser PXC 250 noise-reducing headphones as a replacement for my trusty HDC 451's, which were excellent.  For straight noise reduction, the PXC 250 is definitely better.  But as a wear-it-everywhere set of headphones to improve one's overall quality of life, the PXC 250 still leaves something to be desired.  (For this latter usage, the HDC 451 might still be a wiser choice.)  Here's a rundown of the PXC 250's pros and cons.On the positive side, noise reduction for the PXC 250 is up 50% versus the HDC 451, going from 10 dB to 15 dB of noise suppression.  Quietness is further enhanced by the 250's on-the-ear, cup-style listening units.  The earphones also twist to lie flat, and the headband folds in two places to make the PXC 250 even smaller for stowing.  The 250 even comes with its own black carrying case, which has a zippered pocket on the outside which is perfect for hiding the included \" audio and two-pronged airline adapter plugs.On the downside, the battery carrying case (which also houses the electronics) has grown significantly - even though the battery size has been reduced from two (2) AA's to a pair of AAA's.  The batteries are held in-line, rather than side-by-side.  So the case for the PXC is about as long and thick as a short cigar, whereas the compartment for the HDC 451 is about the size of a box of Tic Tac mints.The most bothersome feature of the PXC 250, though, are the dual wires emerging from the earphones (one for each side), which are probably required since the headband now breaks in two places.  The wires, besides being more numerous, are also fairly thin -- which causes them to get tangled much more often when storing and unstoring them (as compared to the HDC 451 which has a single, thicker wire).Lastly, the increased quietness of the PXC 250's enclosed ear cups, although superior for blocking noise, are no longer an \"open air\" style - which makes hearing ambient sounds and other people's voices more difficult.  The PXC 250 is thus best suited to indoor (or stationary) music listening only, and are perhaps a little too insulating for using outdoors (or while moving or interacting with others).In short, if enjoying music indoors (or on a plane) is your objective, the PXC 250 is definitely the way to go.  If, on the other hand, you'd like to bring sanity to a noisy world by wearing your headphones everywhere, then the older HDC 451 is probably a smarter choice.I'd like to suggest to the company (Sennheiser) that they also consider offering a behind-the-neck style so that outdoor users (like yours truly) can enjoy the benefits of superior noise reduction - while wearing a hat!  And there's definitely something to be learned from the new Bose QuietComfort 2's (which are unfortunately bigger and much more expensive) which incorporate the electronics into the headphones themselves.  This design allows the audio cord to be completely detached - which takes everyday noise suppression to a whole new level of convenience.To conclude, I've tried a variety of affordably priced noise-reducing headphones and earphones from Sony, Aiwa and others.  From my own experiences, the Sennheiser PXC 250 and HDC 451 are definitely the best!  And I certainly wouldn't want to live life without them!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Still one of the best.  But far from perfect!", "unixReviewTime": 1064620800, "reviewTime": "09 27, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A2IKR5C4HKV06X", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "Michael Mccormick", "helpful": [42, 43], "reviewText": "I tried everything. My last attempt at a decent headphone for use in a noisy gym was the Shure E3C \"in-ear\" headphones. You can see my review for those in the Sure E3C section. Before trying those out I had been using the Sony MDR-NC20's for the last 6 months. They did cancel the noise out pretty well but the sound was terribly muffled (no highs) the mids seemed squashed to me almost like they were compressed and while the lows were there, they were very mushy. For a while I just figured that this was the price one pays for using noise canceling technology. Then I went on a hunt again and read some good reviews for the Sennheiser PXC250's so I went and purchased a pair. I first just put the batteries in and tried them at home. They sounded great! Rich low-end, brilliant but not harsh highs. Overall a very pleasant EQ curve. But the real test would be at the gym.The ambient noise in this gym is the constant roar of treadmills, stair machines, stationary bikes, etc. Overall these cover a fairly broad frequency spectrum. I put the headphones on and started the music. Oooops! I forgot to turn the noise canceling on. After doing so I couldn't believe my ears. With the music on (and not even too loud) I felt isolated in the room. The sound was absolutely top-notch and turning on the noise cancellation circuitry actually improved the sound quality! While I have tried the Bose noise canceling headphones it was around 6 months ago so I don't feel qualified to do a direct comparison. However, I do not remember them blowing me away like these Sennheisers did.I think it's also important to know what kind of music I used to judge these phones as someone into classical music might looking for a different sound than someone into rock. I have been either a professional musician or otherwise involved in the music industry for the last 40 years. My music types of choice and the genres I used to judge these phones were progressive rock, rock, and fusion jazz. My reference headphones are the Sony MDR-7506's which, to me, are some of the best sounding headphones one can purchase without completely breaking the bank. They are also some of the most used headphones in the studios I worked in and visited. These Sony phones can produce a very low yet articulate bass and smooth mids and highs that are never over bearing. While the PXC250's are not as rich sounding as the Sony MDR-7506's, to me they are just as pleasant sounding. There are no frequencies I miss when listening to these.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "The Best Noise Cancelling Headphones I've Heard", "unixReviewTime": 1106784000, "reviewTime": "01 27, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2N0Y24VXJD66M", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "MrB", "helpful": [26, 28], "reviewText": "My Bose noise cancelling headphones recently died on me. They were the original model, but with a daughter at college I really didn't fancy shelling out $250+ for a new pair.I spotted these and at the price I decided to buy a pair. After trying them for a few hours all I can say is that Bose just lost a customer. These are very good. Comfortable to wear, effective and they sound great.I highly recommend them.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent value...", "unixReviewTime": 1158105600, "reviewTime": "09 13, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3SI9Z6G0NYNTO", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "Music lover", "helpful": [22, 23], "reviewText": "I bought these headphones a couple months ago to use with a Creative Zen Micro MP3 player, because (1) I knew I had to upgrade to something better than the included earbuds, and (2) I wanted something with noise canceling ability to take with me when I periodically fly to the east coast. And I have never been a Bose fan, I'll take fidelity over artificial booming bass any day :)So far I have been very happy with these headphones. They are not cheap (I got them here on a brief special offer, which helped ease the pain a little), but in my opinion, these headphones are definitely worth the money.First, as far as the noise canceling goes: like other reviewers have stated, you have to know what to expect. Total noise isolation? No way. But these phones do a great job of blocking out low-frequency background noise, while preserving input audio quality, with very little 'noise' added. I have not had the opportunity to take them on an airplane, but I've been using them in the office daily, and they do an admirable job of getting rid of the rumble of three computer fans and the air conditioning. The noise canceling makes a huge difference, especially at low audio volumes. Very impressive! When turned on, a slight amplification of the input signal is apparent, accompanied by a tiny amount of high-frequency hiss, not disturbing at all though.Audio quality, with or without noise canceling, is of course way better than with the cheap earbuds you get for free with MP3 players. The PXC250's are not audiophile standard, as are the top of the line Sennheisers (e.g. the HD650), but they produce clear, well-balanced sound, free of any perceptible distortion and with good, tight bass response. I've tried these on my home theater system and I was suitably impressed - very typical neutral Sennheiser sound. Like most audio equipment of decent quality, they seem to improve after a break-in period.The phones are very comfortable to wear: light-weight with adequate padding all round, probably the most comfortable headphones I've ever owned. I can wear these for hours at a time without feeling any fatigue. The included carrying case and converter plugs are a nice touch, like everything with wires attached to it, it takes some time to get the hang of properly folding and stowing them, but they are certainly very portable. The construction seems sturdy enough and I expect these to last a long time with proper use and care.Something to consider: the input impedance is quite high (300 ohms, compared to the more typical 16-32 ohms of cheaper earbuds/phones), so to drive them properly you need some oomph. My Zen Micro manages to drive them to adequate volume levels (I plan on retaining my hearing for a while still), but if you insist on stretching your eardrums to bleeding levels, you may want to consider getting a headphone amplifier if you plan to use these with portable audio devices.All in all, I am very satisfied with my Sennheiser PXC250's.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Very satisfied", "unixReviewTime": 1119312000, "reviewTime": "06 21, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A12ANFNOSMW5VD", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "Penfist \"Dulce bellum inexpertis\"", "helpful": [23, 25], "reviewText": "I love the noise canceling feature. The sound quality is excellent. The engineering is flawed.I can't figure out why the designers put the battery pack in the middle of the cord length. I guess if you plan on wearing this unit on a belt clip, the engineering is perfect. However, I use the unit plugged into a laptop. When I first started wearing it, every time I wanted to grab something from a nearby shelf or off of the corner of my desk, I would pull the battery pack all over and knock things off the desk, or pull the entire thing out of the headphone jack.I've finally managed to train myself to take the headphones off before I move around, but I wouldn't buy this design again for this application. I would buy Sennheiser headphones again in a heartbeat, if the model I was considering purchasing did not have a battery pack right in the middle of the cord length.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Sound quality - 5 stars. Design - 2 stars", "unixReviewTime": 1151452800, "reviewTime": "06 28, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3JKI0TRX4YWVW", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "Peter Matthews", "helpful": [71, 73], "reviewText": "Went to Tweeter, looking for the Bose QC2.  Turns out, Bose only sells their premium items directly - QC2, Wave, etc.  Tweeter had the PXC250.  The sales guy did not want to open them for me to try, so I bought with 30-day return.  Not content with them, I went to a Bose Kiosk in a mall and bought the QC2's, also on a 30-day return.  The Kiosk was under an escalator, and the mall was busy - the headphones cut down that background substantially - a test similar to an airplane, I believe.Over the next week, I did a few tests, mostly with a TV at moderate volume in the next room (my major interest other than travel).  Both the Sennheiser and the Bose have their advantages, but both the sound quality and noise dampening are clearly better with the Bose.  I took the Sennheiser back, and am keeping the Bose.A year ago or so, I tried a $50 Aiwa pair - hiss and not much cancellation - took them back also.  I suspect that anything less than the Sennheiser PXC250 is not worth considering.  If small size and price are important, and TV noise is not, the Sennheiser may be a better value than the Bose. For me, the Bose is one star better than the Sennheiser, but not perfect.Because you won't find the Bose QC2 on Amazon, I give a point-by-point comparison:Bose QC2:  $300folds flat into semi-hard case about twice the sizearound the ear - better sound, but can get warmno external wand, wire detaches1 AAA in headphone, claimed 35-hrexcellent soundno sound (music) when switched offTV reduced without music, hardly heard with musicSennheiser PXC250:  $150 (less at Amazon)folds flat into soft case about half the sizeon the ear - inferior sound, but cooler2 AAA in external wand (wire is captive?)sound OK, but weak/no bassdiminished sound (music) when switched offTV not reduced much without music, still intruded a little over musicUPDATE 7-12-2009:Some time ago, I got two sets ofEtymotic Research ER6i Isolator In-Ear Earphones (Black)withShure PA910M Replacement Black Foam Sleeves (Medium)  for Shure SE210, SE310, SE420, SE530 and SE530PTH Earphones, for when my wife and I need to travel light.  They are acceptable, but I still prefer the Bose when I have room to carry them.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Worthwhile, but not Bose", "unixReviewTime": 1065312000, "reviewTime": "10 5, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A2D5FCH1F7382U", "asin": "B000089GN2", "reviewerName": "P. McLain", "helpful": [31, 31], "reviewText": "If you will be spending any time on airplanes this year, I highly recommend you buy yourself a pair of these Sennheisers.  I used mine for the first time on a long international flight and was amazed at the results.  They did a great job at eliminating roughly 80% of the ambient noise both while listening to music on my MP3 player and watching in-flight movies.  It's remarkable how much less fatiguing air travel is if you block out the overwhelming ambient noise.Pros:- highly effective active noise reduction- very reasonably priced- collapsible with small carry case and adapter plug for dual prong aircraft jacks- very light weight and comfortable (noise reduction circuit and batteries are located in a belt clip module, not the headset itself)- much less bulky than the Bose noise reduction headphonesCons:- not quite as effective as expensive fully enclosed noise reduction headphones (ie. Bose)If you are a true road warrior (ie travel every week), you might choose the $300 Bose noise canceling headphones.  They are slightly more effective, but not enough to justify being 3 times as expensive as these Sennheisers.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A Great Value for Travelers", "unixReviewTime": 1082073600, "reviewTime": "04 16, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "AASSDFY9K6G2T", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "Abdulrahman Aljabri", "helpful": [55, 58], "reviewText": "I love buying the best value lenses from Canon like the blazingly fast 50mm 1.8 or the razor sharp 85mm 1.8. The 17-40 L is no exception; in fact it's the best value lens from Canon in my opinion, how so? Consider the following features.RANGE: I use this lens on the Rebel XT. With a 1.6 crop factor this lens will provide an angel of view of 27-64. That's a great range for taking pictures in the forest preserve for example. It would have been nice if the lens was a little longer (more like 80mm on 1.6 a body), but with 8MP and Photoshop crop function does it really matter? Not really, I always crop to create beautiful animal pictures in post processing and still maintain excellent picture quality for prints up to 8-10 inches.SIZE & CONSTRUCTION: Yes I list this second because this lens blows away all other canon lenses that I own in construction quality. Its solid as a tank and it balances the XT so well that I can hand hold it with confidence and comfort. Although it weight 1.1 pounds the lens never felt too heavy, just right.SHARPNESS: very sharp at all apertures, but best by 8.0. I am close to affirming that this lens will produce sharpness at par with many primes at that aperture. That's very impressive if you consider that is still a zoom even if it's an L.CONVENIANCE: Coming from using mostly primes its so much fun to use a zoom like this one. Now I pretty much own 4 lenses in one. Yes think of it as owning the 20mm + 24mm + 28mm + 35mm none L primes for half the price combined. The only draw back is that this lens is 1-2 stops slower than those lenses. Otherwise it's almost or as sharp and more convenient to use.FOCUS DISTANCE: Did you ever see pictures where the foreground is dominated with a small object like a flower and then in the background there is a grand scene of open land? This lens gives you the ability to take those pictures because its closest focusing distance is under 1 foot. That means you will be able to get close to objects compared to other zooms. Don't over estimate the convenience of ultra zooms like 28-300mm. Those lenses restrict your ability to crop and create beautiful composition, because their minimum focus distance is higher. With the 17-40 however, all what you have to do is focus correctly, compose with tight crop, and then shoot at f11-16.DISTORION CONTROL: This lens doesn't come free of distortions, especially so at the wide end where you can notice some barrel distortion. But overall its very capable at controlling distortion. That includes distortions like chromatic aberation, light fall off, vigetting, and flare. It doesn't eliminate those things completely, but controls them so well that such problems will go unnoticeable. I would love to have a distortion free lens. After all, with the challenges of getting lighting and composition right who needs lens distortions to deal with on the top of those two things? But the fact to the matter is that all lenses have some level of distortion and this lens is pretty good at controlling them especially if you take its price into account and that's what I will discuss next.VALUE: At the $600 range this lens offers an incredible value. No other lens in that price range offers the same quality build, distortion control, and image quality. The best part however, is that this lens holds its value really well. You can sell it used if you ever have to for close to what you bought it for. Now that's a lens I can't refuse!There are many great value lenses, but each comes with a weakness. For example, the 50mm is very cheap in construction and the 85mm is soft on the wide end. The 17-40 L on the other hand is just amazing! It did not disappoint me in anyway except possibly its limited reach on the upper end (40mm only). Otherwise I see no weakness in this lens. Some people may consider the 4.0 maximum aperture too low, but it served my landscape and nature needs incredibly well. If you need an extra stop for portrait or no flash concerts get the 16-35 2.8. Otherwise this is the lens!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Best value of any L lens, period!", "unixReviewTime": 1145404800, "reviewTime": "04 19, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A31DVZK6U6NSHK", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "ASChin", "helpful": [12, 13], "reviewText": "The Canon 10-22mm EF-S wide angle zoom or the 17-40mm EF \"L\" zoom?  I deliberated this decision for over a month, having physically tested both lenses on my 350D crop frame DSLR at local camera shops and spending a near ridiculous amount of time reading through indispensable online reviews such as this one.  With the price for each being roughly the same, the decision came down to the 10-22's ultra-wide capability vs. the 17-40's build quality.I ended up choosing the 17-40 and here's why:-Incredible optics and sharpness.  If you're like me and have never owned an \"L\" series lens before, you'll be able to see the difference in optical construction quality before you ever snap a digital shot.  It's evident in the viewfinder just how precise this lens is.-Longevity: I'm the kind of guy who likes high quality equipment and can see myself upgrading to a full-frame sensor camera body sooner rather than later.-Wide vs. Ultra-wide: You'll often read warnings of the difficulty in framing sub-20mm ultra-wide compositions.  It's a valid point.  Only certain scenarios lend themselves to 180 degree framing but most of the time you'll be challenged to keep all of the uninteresting junk out of the frame.  I was a little worried about 17-40mm's 27-54mm conversion when used on a crop frame.  Would it be wide enough?  Answer, yes.  27mm is plenty wide for most applications and with the crop factor, I get almost zero barrel distortion at the widest edges.  In my estimation, the 10-22 is more of an effect lens whereas the 17-40 is much more of an everyday multi-purpose working lens.In summary, if the focal length range of the 17-40 doesn't overlap too much over your current lens kit and you favor high-quality wide over good quality ultra-wide, then this lens is right for you.*NOTE: If the 17-40's inclusion of a lens hood is influencing your decision in anyway over the 10-22, don't let it be.  The hood is basically a pain in the rear due to it's ridiculous size and shape.  Difficult to pack and you'd probably be better served just picking up a 77mm protection filter.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Canon 10-22mm EF-S wide angle zoom or the 17-40mm EF \"L\" zoom?", "unixReviewTime": 1192924800, "reviewTime": "10 21, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AZWWDK03E3M8S", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "B. B. \"BB\"", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "Although this lens is considered as ultra wide lens, for XTis and 30D's, this is really a 28-65mm lens (not \"ultra\" but regular wide).  I purchased this for about $700 at Amazon to replace the kit lens 18-55mm the XTi came with.  I am very pleased with the photos that I am taking. The focus is quick. The images are sharp, and the color is beautiful. I like the lens a lot.  Because it's a F4 lens, I do need to use the flash. With 430EX flash I am getting pleasing shots in low light situations as well. I suppose a lower F stop might be better but I don't think Canon makes a lower F stop lens of comparable build. I did consider 28-70mm F2.8L (45-112mm on the XTi), but then it's no longer a \"wide\" angle lens. Compensating for the crop factor, getting a wide angle lens meant 17mm or less. So, this was really the only choice I had for an L quality build at this price range.  Over all, I am very satisfied with the build quality and the results.  The 40mm (64mm on the XTi) is a bit short, and I wish it were longer.  However, giiven that this lens costs only (did I say \"only?\" lol) about $650, I have no complaints about the lens.  Something's gotta give.  It's weight is nicely substantial (not too heavy), and since I use my XTi with a battery grip all of the time, the combined weight balances well in my hands. To me, the battery grip and this lens are perfect companions to make the XTi's complete. I like this 17-40mm f/4L USM Wide Angle Zoom Lens for my XTi.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "This lens completes XTi (or 30D).", "unixReviewTime": 1180483200, "reviewTime": "05 30, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AVVK4R7TCCT7R", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "Carlos O. Ruiz \"BlenderPilot\"", "helpful": [13, 47], "reviewText": "A friend photographer for a local newspaper showed up with one of these, brand new! I tested it against the 28-40 range and the pictures were completely identical in every way, sharpness in every corner, contrast, etc.Just thought I let you know.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "I tested it against the 28-135 mm USM IS lens and  . . . . .", "unixReviewTime": 1136246400, "reviewTime": "01 3, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A39KJOCZGCM8P1", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "Chris Lee Mullins", "helpful": [39, 40], "reviewText": "I was hesitant to spend $650+ on any lens, L-glass or not. I'd already purchased a 50mm/1.4, a 75-300mm USM IS, and the Rebel came with an 18-55mm. But I was missing a good, wide lens. After much hand-wringing and research, I settled on the 17-40mm piece of L-glass. I haven't regretted it.The 18-55mm EFS lens that comes with the Rebel is...ok. It falls out of focus easily and feels cheaply constructed. On the other hand, the 17-40mm lens is as solid as you can hope for - metal mounts, feels extremely well put together. Its not especially fast, but its quick enough. I've not missed a shot yet.I mostly use the 17-40mm for outdoor photowork and some indoor portrait work provided the lighting conditions are favorable, otherwise I use my 50mm/1.4. The 17-40mm is good walk-around lens. The addition of a lens-hood and a case is a nice bonus.Yes, the 10-22mm EF-S will get you an extra 7mm, something us digital SLR users would kill for given the 1.6x conversion. But again, the build quality difference between the 10-22 and the 17-40 is glaring. Not to mention that should you need to resell the 10-22 later, only 20D and Digital Rebel customers would apply, unless Canon expands the line-up of EFS-compatible cameras.And...this is L-glass. The pictures are impressive. The bokeh is pleasing. Given favorable lighting conditions, this lens pretty much dominates my Digital Rebel 80% of the time.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best lens in my line-up", "unixReviewTime": 1108252800, "reviewTime": "02 13, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2LCE1D0TW2XY0", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "D. Alexander", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "This is the top choice for a versatile, economical full-frame ultra-wide. Buy the 17-55/2.8 IS for a crop camera or a 16-35/2.8 II for full-frame if you can swing the cost.This 17-40/4L is light (475g) and small. Lighter than the 28-135/3.5-5.6 IS kit zoom, lighter than just about everything else in this class. Build quality is excellent with very tight tolerances. AF is fast, silent, and accurate. It takes standard-depth 77mm filters without vignetting, and if you attach one, it's weather-sealed. Nothing about the way it handles surprises in a negative way.Image quality on a crop body is excellent, though irrelevant and slightly inferior to the 17-55/2.8 IS in most ways. There's almost no reason to buy this lens for crop cameras (Rebels, 20D-60D, 7D). You gain marginally better extreme edge quality and weather sealing (that the body itself probably doesn't have) at the expense of IS and focal range.Image quality on full-frame can be very good. Center sharpness is fine at focal lengths and apertures from f/4 to f/16. Edge sharpness, defined as roughly the outer fifth of the frame, is weak at 40mm f/4 and blurry at 17mm f/4. This area is decent by f/8 and good by f/11, but doesn't quite rise to what you'd see with the Tokina 16-28/2.8. The far corners are never sharp at any aperture. There's noticeable lens flare with point light sources. Contrast is very good.For movie shooters, this lens is parfocal, so it doesn't require refocusing when you zoom. Use it with a Steadicam-style rig to reduce handshake.The 17-40 focal range is excellent for a walkaround. My favorite moderately-priced two-lens kit with my full-frame 5D II combines this (or the 16-35/2.8) and a 100/2. Before that, I had a 10-22 and 50/1.4 with a crop 40D. I missed the last millimeter of the 10-22 (a 16-35 equivalent); the lost width is noticeable. That lens also had better sharpness across the frame.Before I bought the 17-40, I went through alternatives in the same price range. Here's the full list with used prices and whatever issues I encountered:Sigma 17-35/2.8-4 (560g) ($300) (QC variance, poor wide open)Sigma 15-30/3.5-4.5 (615g) ($300) (QC variance, flare, poor edges)Sigma 12-24 I/4.5-5.6 (615g) ($475) (slow, not a walkaround, soft below f/8)Sigma 12-24 II/4.5-5.6 (670g) ($575) (slow, not a walkaround)Tokina 17-35/4 (600g) ($400) (no benefit over the 17-40/4L, softer)Tokina 16-28/2.8 (950g) ($625) (heavy, doesn't take filters)Tamron 17-35/2.8-4 (440g) ($400) (AF issues, soft)Canon 16-35/2.8 I (600g) ($850) (weak corners)Canon 17-35/2.8 (545g) ($650) (out of service, no close focus, very poor edges)Many of these lenses are older designs intended to compete with Canon's 17-35/2.8. Sigma's 17-35 and 15-30 are both cheap and capable, but subject to wide sample variance that you won't be able to mitigate if you're buying from third parties. The 15-30 is worth a look if you can try it out before you buy. The 12-24 series are so wildly different from the 17-40/4L that they're almost a different class of lens. Interesting, but special purpose.The most compelling alternatives are the 16-35/2.8L I and Tokina's 16-28/2.8. The Tokina has the best image quality of any ultra-wide zoom for any mount save Nikon's 14-24/2.8. You pay for it with over two pounds of weight, a bulbous front element that won't take filters, and a focal range that starts and ends wide. The 16-35/2.8L II has similar quality at equivalent apertures.Among new lenses, there's almost no reason to prefer the 17-40/4L over the 16-35/2.8 II save cost. The latter has better image quality at all focal lengths and apertures and less flare. Weight is marginally higher and it takes enormous 82mm filters. Otherwise, it's the preferred Canon full-frame ultrawide.Because I found f/4 wanting for general-purpose use indoors, I replaced my 17-40/4L with a 16-35/2.8L II. For landscape apertures, the two are almost indistinguishable. The Tokina 16-28/2.8 is sharper to the edges than both, but I wasn't willing to stomach the weight or lack of filters.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Almost perfect save for the borders on full-frame", "unixReviewTime": 1343520000, "reviewTime": "07 29, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A3CJ7MHAS9IMAM", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "Dom Miliano", "helpful": [158, 169], "reviewText": "For years, I have been using my 28-70 f:2.8 Canon zoom as my \"normal\" lens. It is sharp (Oh baby is it!) and at 2.8,fast enough for just about any pro or serious amateur. But there were plenty of times I needed a little more coverage than the 28MM focal length provided. Since most of my work is with long-lens and fast (and expensive) zooms, I couldn't pony up the bucks for Canon's superwide f2.8 zoom. When I saw the price on the 17-40MM lens and the fact that it was the \"L\" flavor with pro glass, I bought it immediately.  I've had it for about a year and I have already sold several pictures - published in glossy magazines with picky photo editors. And I trust it to give me sharp pictures, even at the extreme settings - wide open and at the 17MM end. You have to remember to always use the weird looking but effective lens hood to control flare and as with any very wide lens, look at the edges of the frame (your feet could be in every picture!) It's light, good enough to use as your normal lens and with their new 70-300 IS DO lens could make for an amazing and compact travel kit. So while Canon's lens experts probably built this one for the growing digital crowd, as a film user I think it's the bargain of the year and is in my camera bag every time I go on assignment. I suggest that you get a good quality \"thin\" UV filter and polarizer and you will be set to explore the exciting world of ultra-wide photography.Important update: I recently returned from an assignment to Monte Carlo to test drive sports cars. Part of the deal was to get thrill rides from a pro driver up and down the French mountains above Monaco. Armed with my 17-40MM an EOS 1V, 540 flash, and Velvia 50, I clicked off a whole roll of film during my turn in the passenger's seat. The magazine editor called me when he saw the slides and said that the shots in the car were the \"strongest images\" in the shoot. Yup, the lens is that good.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Film Users Alert - It's Not Just For Digital SLRs", "unixReviewTime": 1097712000, "reviewTime": "10 14, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A3414D1LX5IQGO", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "Genobambino", "helpful": [159, 163], "reviewText": "No one lens accomplishes every photographic objective.  Canon makes each lens at every price point well-suited to various tasks, but with limitations that can only be overcome by graduating to the next higher priced but similar item.  A case in point: the wide-angle zooms.The 17-40mm f/4 is one of Canon's best deals in L-series glass.  You have to spend twice as much to get a lens of similar quality, but just one stop faster.  Does this make the more-expensive EF 16-35 f/2.8L a ripoff?  Not for its own specific use: the extra stop gives you the speed to shoot in more indoor situations.  Not all photographers need this.  When indoors, we're often taking pictures of people, which are better suited to lengths around 50-100mm.  To capture sweeping panoramas of parlors for Architectural Digest (or Coldwell Banker) the f/2.8 is the better lens and worth the step up in price, though in many cases you could use the f/4 lens with a tripod.  All this means is that the f/2.8 is priced for professional specialists whereas the f/4 is for more general use. My bigger point is that Canon has its whole lineup positioned: the differences across lenses are specific and appropriately priced, which is good news for the consumer.  It's hard to make a mistake buying homegrown Canon lenses, especially L-series lenses.  You just have to figure out which set of two or three suits your range of uses.The 17-40mm is a steal for people who need a walkaround lens for travel and outdoor photography.  The shorter focal lengths of the zoom are great on a digital body, with nice reach and minimal distortion; just an ability to grab up landscape and wide situations end-to-end, even when standing close.  The focal lengths around 40mm are tight enough for portraits and other local detail.  Colors are strong and convincing; contrast deep and impactful.  The lens itself is small enough and light enough to grab-and-go, but nicely machined, with solid fit and finish.  It has an instantly recognizable profile, with the added bonus of the red ring.This lens, plus a 70-200mm f/2.8 telescope and a nice fast fixed lens in the range betwixt are all you need.  On vacation, and in most outdoor situations, the 17-40mm alone suffices.  It makes a good first L-lens, and a staple in the arsenal.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Versatility on the Cheap", "unixReviewTime": 1151884800, "reviewTime": "07 3, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AU5U16YWAIYZP", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "Grant Brummett", "helpful": [30, 33], "reviewText": "01-03-2009 Canon 5D Mark II use update\"A so so walk around lens on my 40D becomes a wide angle monster on my Canon 5D Mark II. This lens is soft wide open at F/4 but sharpens up noticeably at F/4.5 and becomes a super wide angle take it all in landscape and interior monster when stopped down to F/9 on a Canon 5D Mark II. This is a lens I always carry with me now since I never know when I might see a wide angle opportunity. Doesn't have the you are there feeling when viewing the photos on my iMac as much as the Canon 85mm F/1.2 II L or Canon 100-400 IS L lenses but it's closer to perfection then you will ever see on a cropped sensor camera. I keep hoping that Canon will make a wide angle zoom that matches the performance of my Canon 100-400 IS L zoom lens.  The 24-70 F/2.8 seems pretty similar in performance as the 17-40 it's just faster and has more reach.  I normally prefer the 17-40 F/4 L over the 24-70 on the 5D Mark II unless I am shooting weddings and then I carry both with me.Pros:Very nice lens bag includedCenter is sharp even at F/4Love that high quality L Lens buildLens hood included and easy to installGreat contrast, beautiful rich color imagesSuper quiet and super fast USM auto focusGreat landscape lens super sharp at F/8 and 17mmGood walk around lens for cropped sensor camera, ultra wide lens when used on a full frame sensor camera.This lens has Auto Lens Vignetting correction using peripheral Illumination control see Auto Vignetting comments belowButtery smooth zoom and manual focus ringsFits all Canon EOS cameras including full frame film and 5DFirst copy I got was good to go with no quality control issuesSharper on the wide end 17 to 24mm then Canon EF-S 17-55 F/2.8 IS and Canon 24-70 F/2.8 L but much softer then them on the narrow end 40mm.Cons:Only F4, wish it was F2.8 or even F3.5Lens Hood is very bulky and hard to storeRather narrow 17-40 zoom range: 17-55 would have been nicerVery soft wide open in the corners, sharpens a lot at F/4.5Could be sharper on the corners on the narrow end 24mm to 40mm and wide openFirst impressions:If you are an older photographer like me you remember the good ole days when all SLR 35mm style lens had a quality feel to them.  Built to last forever with smooth zoom and focusing and they came with a lens hood and carrying bag.  Details included a built in lens focusing scale in both feet (green lettering) and meters (white lettering) and an infrared scale adjustment in red lettering.  The lens mounted to the camera body with a precision feel like the two were actually made by experienced craftsman who actually cared about the product they were creating.  It's a great quality feel that you can get used to.  With this Canon EF 17-40mm f/4L USM lens that's exactly what you are getting, a finally crafted functional work of art.I never cease to be amazed at USM auto focus, so quiet, so fast, so accurate, so useful with the auto-focus manual focus override without turning off the auto focus.  I shoot both wild life and weddings both of which require at times the camera be as quiet as possible up to the moment you shoot.  This lens delivers; I can barely hear it focus even with my ear against the lens and can not hear it focus at all only a couple of feet from the lens.Decisions Decisions:Like a lot of other people I was looking to upgrade my basic Kit 18-55 lens (very soft muddy lens) I got with my Canon Rebel XTi camera.  And like a lot of people I wanted a lens that I would never outgrow or tire of or wear out.  I take a lot of photos and frequently upgrade camera bodies and wanted a lens that will also work on a full frame camera like the 5D.I had borrowed a friends 17-70 Sigma and it was really sharp and for the money (less then half the price of the Canon 17-40) I thought I would try one even though it wouldn't work on a full frame camera.  I went through three copies and all were bad before deciding to go back to the 17-40.  Man what a great decision going with the Canon 17-40.  Thanks to 47th Street photo for being so nice about the whole return twice then later upgrade from Sigma to Canon situation.  I only had to pay return shipping.Testing:When I received my new Canon 17-40 I took it out, mounted it on my Canon Rebel XTi and mounted the camera on a tripod, put on a remote release, set the camera to mirror lockup mode, Aperture Propriety at F8,  28mm zoom and tested it both against my friends Sigma 17-70 and my own basic Canon 18-55 kit lens.  The 17-40 absolutely blew the kit lens out of the water: in sharpness, contrast and richness of color.  Then I tried it against the Sigma which I thought was a sharp lens and the Canon 17-40 was sharper and had more contrast then the Sigma.  Then I set it to 40mm and shot against my Canon 50mm F1.8 II lens which I thought was pretty sharp and it was better then it as well.  I then tried the lens in various conditions and settings and all extremes both indoors and out with and without flash.  I also own a Canon 70-200 F2.8 L and it's sharper then it as well at some settings.I was very pleased to find out that the very first copy of this lens right out of the box was sharp enough and auto focus was right on the money!Auto Vignetting peripheral illumination control:Canon has this super sweet Auto Lens Vignetting correction that works with this lens both in camera with JPEG's and in RAW using peripheral Illumination control in Canon Digital Photo Professional (DPP) when using newer Canon digital EOS cameras (Canon Rebel XSi, 40D, 5D Mark II etc.) . No more vignetting when shooting wide open!!! When shooting Raw open the file(s) in DPP and click on NR/Lens Lens Aberration Correction / Tune and click on Peripheral illumination. The cameras listed above have already picked up the amount of vignetting based on focusing distance, zoom setting and F stop from the lens and the camera has saved the information with the Raw file. You can then adjust the amount under Peripheral Illumination if you don't like the amount automatically suggested. If you shot JPEG then you get the auto amount. SWEET!!!Conclusion:If you want THE best wide angle L lens to use on both cropped and ultra wide for full sized sensor Canon EOS camera bodies this is it.  It's dual purpose capabilities both as a normal walk around zoom (27mm to 64mm) on cropped sensor cameras and ultra wide zoom (17mm to 40mm) on full sized sensors make it a very versatile lens you won't out grow.I am very pleased and heartily recommend the Canon EF 17-40mm f/4L USM Ultra Wide Angle Zoom Lens.12-4-2007 UpdateI love this lens more then ever and I use it here at work a lot.  Since I take photos usually tripod mounted with a small depth of field F-8 to F-11 and shoot a lot in the 17 - 28mm zoom range this lens really fits the bill when mounted on my Canon Rebel XTi.  I continue to be impressed with the sharp high contrast photos and the super fast auto focus.One note of warning, this lens sticks out especially without the lens hood on.  I have since taken to having a lens filter mounted on it (B & W 77mm UV (Ultra Violet) Haze Multi Coated (2C) Glass Filter #010) to protect it although it seems to really degrade the sharpness and to some extent the contrast colors of the image.  I'm hoping to find a filter that does not degrade the image at all and am doing tests at all the local camera stores to try and find one.  Will post here when I find a great filter as I would like to buy one for my Canon 70- 200 to protect it as well and since it's the same filter size I could even switch back and forth.  For now when I have the lens tripod mounted and want the best image quality I remove the filter and when I am just walking around I leave the filter in place.Filter Update 1-3-2008After much searching I found the perfect filter.  The Hoya Multi Coat HMC Pro1 Protection filter is not supposed to filter the shot just protect the front lens element.  I was very worried that it would affect the shot after having tried some other premium filters like the B+W UV which caused the photos to be softer and duller.  However, after some tests I found that in some weird way the Hoya Multi Coat HMC Pro1 actually makes the photos seem to have just a little more contrast and be a little sharper then without.  I thought I had gotten the test shots backwards and had to retest with a little sign in the photo saying with and without filter in place just to make sure.  Really amazing!!!  I'm sold!3-28-2008Well, it was one of the sharpest lens I own.  Now I have a different standard as it's been surpassed by the Canon EF-S 17-55 F/2.8 IS lens which is sharper at the narrow end 24-40mm at every equal setting and by my Canon 135mm F/2 L and Canon 85mm F/1.2 L II.  But I still love this lens and I am going to keep it and it is very sharp on the wide end 17mm even at F4.5.  I plan to use it for ultra wide angle when Canon finally releases their Canon 5D replacement whenever that is. I also still use it on my Canon 40D and Rebel XTi when I am in dusty areas because of the weather sealing.  And the zoom action is so smooth I wish the 17-55 F/2.8 had this zoom action.  Still the colors are bright and it's pretty sharp and its small and light!4-17-2008 UpdateI still love this lens and use it for motorcycle rides and hiking where it's light weight and weather tight seal come in handy.  Plus I found that you can get an image very sharp if you process it using the Canon Digital Photo Professional that came with you camera.  I also use as a backup at weddings and for out door wide angle wedding shots and landscapes.9-22-2008 Update:I'm getting ready to purchase or lease the new Canon 5D Mark II and boy oh boy is this 17-40 L lens going to come in handy.  One of the first places I want to take the happy couple is to the Grand Canyon.  17mm at F/10 tripod mounted oh YEAH!!!  True wide angle bliss!!!10-07-2008 Update:I recently had a question as to why I bought the Canon 17-40 F/4 L lens instead of the Canon EF-S 10-22mm lens.  All EF-S lenses only work on cropped sensor cameras (Rebels, 40D, 50D etc).  I have ordered a new 5D Mark II full frame sensor which can not use the EF-S 10-22mm lens.  A full frame sensor camera makes the 17-40 lens at 17mm as wide as the 10-22 zoom is when the 10-22 is set at 11mm.  So there is only a 1 mm advantage with the EF-S 10-22 on a cropped sensor camera vs the 17-40 on a full frame sensor camera.  And the 17-40 has a much wider zoom range about double in fact.So bottom line on the EF-S 10-22mm f/3.5-4.5 vs the EF 17-40mm F/4 L if you only plan on using a cropped sensor camera then the EF-S 10-22mm lens could be the right lens for you.  However, if you are planning on moving up to a full frame sensor camera like the 5D or 5D Mark II then you can use the 17-40 L lens now with your cropped sensor camera as a walk around lens (it just won't be as wide) and then when you get a full frame sensor camera you will have all the wide angle glory and still be able to use the lens on both cameras.  If you never plan on buying full frame and want super wide angle you should go with the EF-S 10-22mm f/3.5-4.5.10-17-2008 Update:I've noticed this lens is very SOFT in the corners wide open at F/4.0.  Which is OK if you are looking for that say when shooting a wedding but not good when shooting landscapes.  But sharpens up a lot in the corners by going to F/4.5 and is as sharp as it's going to get by around F/8 where it seems about as sharp as any zoom I have and is approaching the sharpness of a prime lens at 17mm.[...][...][...]", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Light and a pleasure to use", "unixReviewTime": 1194393600, "reviewTime": "11 7, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1O9ZV1M7X1T0T", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "Hermann Pais", "helpful": [10, 11], "reviewText": "I purchased this lens to use on a Canon EOS5D, full frame 12.5 Megapixel digital camera. This is my favorite lens! The expressiveness of pictures taken with it is beyond description. It bring the viewer fully into the scene, almost as a virtual reality setup. I think the best next thing would be an IMAX type lens with the appropriate displays... but that is beyond the scope of us mere mortals.I use the lens for aerial photography and for taking pictures of my favorite subjects: airplanes. In Airventure 2007, at Oshkosh, WI, I didn't have this lens and I lost several very interesting pictures for the lack of it. I purchased it shortly thereafter. On a recent trip on a Cirrus SR22 with a friend, I took dramatic pictures of my pilot friend doing his preflight, and once in the cockpit, doing all his clearance and pre-flight chores. The pictures do do justice to the reality of the scene, even when you take a composition of the airplane panel with the view outside the cockpit on the same picture. Some Photoshop - Shadows and Highlights - is all that is needed to bring it all into the dynamic range of the photographic papers we use.This is my favorite lens because of its perspective, the reality view you get at the 17mm extreme. For my girlfriend, this is her favorite lens because it's the only L-lens I have that's below 1 pound!NOTE: The lens hood is almost useless. Be careful with flare of the sun hitting the lens or a filter. The circular polarizer introduces weird artifacts because of the wide angle - part of the sky will be dark, part will be bright... better not use a polarizer.The other lens I have, all L-glass from Canon:* 70-200mm f/2.8 L IS - for the best airshow pictures you can fathom! Extremely fast lens, it works with the Autofocus on the 5D in the sub-second range, letting you use it almost as a point and shoot. Your only concern is the framing, everything else is done by the camera + lens.* 24-70mm f/2.8 L - extremely fast, extremely sharp. Sharp as a tack! If you take portraits of women, you will need to use the \"heal brush\" in Photoshop a lot, this lens doesn't forgive any wrinkles, pimples, large pores on the skin. For night scene photography, just let the camera at ISO 800 and you can do without a flash, for indoors night photography, even in an extremely dim restaurant.* 2x Extender - OK this is not a lens but it's an accessory that makes my 70-200mm into a 140-400mm f/5.6. AWESOME! At Airventure it's used to take pictures of the planes at the extreme end of the runway getting ready for take off. Or for capturing the vapor trails on the leading edge of the F22 Raptors as they defy the laws of physics. For daytime use unless you have a tripod and the scene accepts a 1sec or more exposure.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "My favorite lens!", "unixReviewTime": 1188691200, "reviewTime": "09 2, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3IPSECQAUAT8V", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "JanSobieski", "helpful": [220, 237], "reviewText": "Figuring out which lens to buy turned out to be more difficult than which camera to purchase!  At least for me.  I want my lenses to be a reasonable size (rules out the superb 70-200 f2.8 IS L), acceptably fast (at least f 4.0), preferably black (so that they are inconspicuous),  not outrageously priced (admittedly this last factor being entirely subjective), and preferably a zoom for the additional flexibility.Primes are absolutely fantastic values, reasonably priced, fast, and inconspicuous, BUT offer limited flexibility which, in my mind overrides the other factors.I purchased this lens for the wider end of my shooting needs and I couldn't be more pleased.  It takes beautiful pictures, sharp, beautifully saturated, with no discernable vignetting and little flare under normal circumstances.This lens has beautiful bokeh IMO and is every bit the equal, again IMO, of the 16-35 f2.8 L in every respect other than speed (f 2.8 vs f 4.0).  With the new digital SLR cameras you can easily make up for the loss of speed by cranking up the ISO.The construction quality is fantastic and it is a lens that you will be able to use forever.  It is an ideal lens for the current crop of 1.6 size sensors, but will also serve you well into the future whether you stick with the current size sensor or move up to larger sensors as they become more afordable.I heartily recommend this lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great walk-around lens!", "unixReviewTime": 1098403200, "reviewTime": "10 22, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A2NMFVD61EGMY2", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "Jesse R. Hunter", "helpful": [505, 543], "reviewText": "(I really want to give this lens 3.5 stars)This review is written from the viewpoint of someone whom has used many L-class lenses, and as such will be a little harder on this piece of glass. If you've never used a Canon L lens and you purchase this one, I guarantee you'll be quite pleased with your purchase. But this review is really meant for those who own other L glass pieces and are looking into adding this one to their collection.The good:L glass tends to mean some heavy-weight glass, however this lens is surprisingly light and small. In fact, it is the smallest/lightest L zoom Canon makes. You find yourself more likely to take it to places where there may not be much of a projected photo opportunity or where there is a higher risk in damaged gear due to its unobtrusive size. It really is one of those few L lenses that you can casually walk around with and not garner much for attention.As with all L-glass, this ones very solidly constructed. It has a simplicity of design that minimizes risk to moving parts from shock. It is well-balanced and just feels like a tight glass package.The lens performs very well in color and contrast. Natural saturation is excellent, easily on par with the L expectation. The color and saturation of this lens sits somewhere between the 70-200mm f/2.8 IS and the 24-70mm f/2.8.I initially thought that the zoom range would be constraining (a mere 23mm of range?), but in reality the lens is fairly versatile. This especially true on a 1.6 FOVCF body (20D, 30D, 350D, 400D, etc), where the range is more like that of a normal zoom, at the cost of the super-wide advantage. The lens handles pretty much all composition tasks except those of a telephoto or 1.0x macro. You won't be disappointed in the zoom versatility.Price. This like, what, the second cheapest L lens available. For those whom are very accustomed to purchasing/collecting L lenses, anything under a thousand dollars really is considered on the cheap side. If this is your first L purchase, this lens or the 70-200mm F/4L are your places to start.Flare. There's practically none.Cons: (there's only one, but its a biggie)Sharpness. This is by far my biggest qualm, and what makes me frown a little at this lens for its L designation. It's nowhere near that of other lenses. One of the biggest uses for this lens is landscape photography, where objects appear very distant and sharpness becomes crucial. 24mm at f/4 on this lens is easily less sharp than 24mm at f/2.8 (!) on the 24-70 f/2.8L. And as a little investigation will reveal, this probelm is also somewhat appearant on the 16-35mm f/2.8L (although it seems less pronounced). 100% crop comparisons of this lens to other lenses such as the 180mm f/3.5L is simply a joke.Other:This lens utilizes slight movement of the front element, so it is advised by pretty much everyone that a UV filter be purchased (77mm filter size). I add to that by saying: buy only the Multi-coated from B+W or Hoya if you're shooting digital. Yes, they're usually somewhere around eighty bucks, but spending forty on something that will bring you ghosting/contrast woes is not worth it.The hood of this lens is hilarious. It's almost five inches wide and maybe an inch and a half tall. I simply don't use it (I can't geometrically see how it helps. I think it may be something of a feel-good-hood if you're not consiencious about flare.) The lens is less conspicuous without it and I really don't have a flare problem.ConclusionI'm really not satisfied with the sharpness issue. It seems at least somewhat appearant on almost all Canon's lenses below 35mm. (Except for the 24-70 and 24-105, which is odd). I think they're still working out their wide-angle formula. Appearantly, the new 17-55mm f/2.8 is supposed to be sharper than both the 17-40 and 16-35, so they are probably on the right track of improving the issue.In the end, if you've never used L glass and are considering this one, buy it. You will be very pleased, I assure you. But if you own a good deal of L glass, you may want to hold off from this one and wait for Canon to improve their optics. You may find yourself like me, using other L pieces and only using this one when I absolutely have to.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Only decent in comparison to other L's", "unixReviewTime": 1162252800, "reviewTime": "10 31, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A36PBM9TUEE7C2", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "J. Foote", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I bought this lens after contemplating buying the new 16-35 2.8.  I had the money to buy the more expensive lens but I didn't and here is why.  I was told by an aquaintance who test for Canon that the 17-40 f 4.0 is over all sharper and has less distortion than the new 16-35 f 2.8 (as of Aug 15 2007).  I have heard this from other photographers as well.  Also although it isn't an f 2.8 as like the 16-35 it does have a bit more range and I have found the focusing is pretty fast regardless.  I think it is the best $700 I ever spent on a piece of camera equipment.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Canon EF 17-40mm f/4L USM Ultra Wide Angle Zoom", "unixReviewTime": 1187049600, "reviewTime": "08 14, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A25YCUIR1YC8HM", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "J. G. MATHIESON \"CA tech lover\"", "helpful": [20, 22], "reviewText": "If, like me, you are a fan of wide angle shots with their greater sense of depth, and encompassing vision, then you will love this lens.The 1.6X multiplier of my Rebel XT takes away the extreme wide angle capability of this lens, but nevertheless the range is impressive at an effective 27 to 64mm. This makes the lens a very effective general purpose lens, ranging from a great wide angle to slight telephoto. I normally leave this lens on my camera, only swapping it for a telephoto zoom for outdoor/sports shots.The quality is just great - the pictures jump out at you for their color, contrast and sharpness. Even though this lens costs almost as much as the camera body, there is no question that it is worth every penny. If you are thinking of buying the new 30D with a lesser lens, then you might want to consider saving the money on the body and splurging on this lens instead.You won't regret it!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great general lens for a digital SLR", "unixReviewTime": 1141862400, "reviewTime": "03 9, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1KYN54PO33SRM", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "J. Kahlon \"jkahlon\"", "helpful": [10, 11], "reviewText": "I have had this lens for almost a year now. I bought this with a 350 XT body only. For a long time this was my only lens and pretty much this is all I needed.I have used it extensively, the contrast and sharpness are great, it is relatively fast and extremely reliable, the success rate with this lens is excellent. The outdoor scenic shots are breathtaking. For the money this is the best wide angle lens you can buy.Compared to the 2.8 's it is way less expensive and easy to carry. The 2.8 to 4.0 gap can easily be covered by changing settings on the XT in most cases.Also it gives a nice grip when held from the lens and this results in steady shots at high ISO settings. I have used it for nightshots, the shutter speed has to be slow to get the shot, got good and sharp results with the lens.I have added a 50mm 1.4 prime lens to my collection but the 17-40mm is the one I have on most of the time when going out.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent quality and amazing pictures", "unixReviewTime": 1138752000, "reviewTime": "02 1, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AKT8TGIT6VVZ5", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "John Kwok", "helpful": [22, 27], "reviewText": "As a photographer, I have not yet succumbed to the pleasures of having one all-around lens for landscape, people and street photography (I personally prefer single focal length prime lenses since these tend to be sharper, contrastier, and relatively more free from distortion, than zoom lenses, though zoom lens quality is now quite close to those from primes.). However, if I was interested in acquiring one lens which would allow me to photograph easily landscape, people and street scences with the flexibility of focal lengths from an ultrawide angle to nearly normal perspective, then this lens would be a superb candidate. The test reports I have read in several photography magazines, most notably in Shutterbug, and I believe, Popular Photography, too, have been absolutely enthusiatic in their praise for this lens. Not only is it among the cheaper lenses in Canon's superb L Series line, but it is apparently among the best. I have also met photographers who are truly quite enthusiastic about this lens's capabilities. So if you are a Canon owner seeking a superb-quality wide angle zoom lens of this range, then you shouldn't hesitate buying it soon.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Quite possibly Canon's best Wide Angle zoom lens in this range", "unixReviewTime": 1120867200, "reviewTime": "07 9, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1PQECYSSYZ2UL", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "Justin Adams", "helpful": [25, 56], "reviewText": "I have purchased several Canon lenses off Amazon, and this is by far the worst yet.  I own an Olympus C-7070 and it takes sharper pictures at f2.8 than this lens takes at f12.  Canon has some major quality control issues that they need to resolve, because this is not the first time I have had issues with soft lenses from them.  The first lens I bought for my Canon 5D was the 24-105mm.  When I received it, I had the similar issues with shapness (or lack thereof), so I returned it to Amazon and got another copy.  Again, same problem.  It took me sending the lens directly to Canon for calibration to get the problem solved, but who wants that kind of hassle??  Come on Canon, get it together, and improve your quality control.  I love my 5D, but it should not be this hard to find good lenses from your \"L\" lineup...", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Another dissapointment from an \"L\" lens :-(", "unixReviewTime": 1166054400, "reviewTime": "12 14, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1RMX8OHTVW0MJ", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "J. Yeh", "helpful": [54, 60], "reviewText": "I have both 16-35 and this 17-40.  I end up using 17-40 lot more than 16-35. No doubt, 16-35 is a better lens, faster, wider, but this only helps in one condition: indoor shots where flash and tripod is prohibited. I bump into this situation when I was in the Hearst Castle and 16-36 helped a lot. Another situation is indoor-event without flash, but not too often you'll bump into this situation. Maybe funeral service inside the church?Again, these situations are rare.  Usually I use the wide angle lens for landscape shots or group photos. For landscape, I'm not going to use f/2.8 anyway. For group photos, it's another no-no.Therefore, 17-40 is a more reasonable choice.  Again, it's F/4, but you don't have too many chances to use f/2.8 anyway. It's half the cost and it's lighter.Many first-time users of DSLR face the situation of buying a wide angle lens. I highly recommend 17-40. It's one of the cheapest L lens but you'll end up with much better pictures.  The results are instant. Of course, if you have enough cash, buy 16-35, but you'll find yourself reducing aperture most of the time, which, isn't that what 17-40 can do?", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Wide Angle L lens", "unixReviewTime": 1142380800, "reviewTime": "03 15, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1ZJ3KU3LJ6TJO", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "MD Boatbum", "helpful": [51, 53], "reviewText": "First off, if you're a pro with a bag full of $2000 lenses, you're probably not interested in this, the 2nd least expensive \"L\" lens.Secondly, if you're going to compare this to a bunch of $2000 lenses, you're barking up the wrong tree.My guess is the typical buyer of this lens is someone who is taking their first tentative step into the world of \"expensive\" glass. This lens is made to order for you. It simply blows \"ordinary\" lenses out of the water. If you're used to the kit lens that came with your camera, or a 3rd party lens you got for $150, you are going to love this lens. You'll find yourself taking more pictures, taking time to frame your shots and basically caring about what you shoot. This is a lens that is far more talented than you are, and you'll strive to rise to its level.I cannot say enough good things. The sharpness ROCKS. The saturation and contrast are absolutely fantastic. The focus is instantaneous and silent, and usually dead on. And the red stripe looks really cool! :)Its heavy, and built like a tank. If you're looking for a lightweight, this ain't it. It is lighter than most other \"L\" lenses, however, and not too bad to carry.Drop the 700 bucks, and go out and take some serious photographs.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Buy this lens today. You'll thank yourself.", "unixReviewTime": 1167091200, "reviewTime": "12 26, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1ZJXU4R92UOF0", "asin": "B00009R6WO", "reviewerName": "M. Russo \"mitchrusso\"", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "I actually have two of these, it's so important to me. I am a travel photographer and I spend many hours out at night. Night photography taxes the limits of most any equipment from camera bodies to glass. You can see some of my work here - LensTraveler18.com. I have rented and owned approximately 20 of Canon's fast glass in mostly wide angle varieties including the new 17mm T/S and the 24 F1.4 mm lens too.Without hesitation, this lens will match in sharpness and contrast any lens in my bag as long as it's at F4.5 or greater. At F6.7 it's as near perfect as I have found. I do not hesitate to recommend it yet some people have experience softness at wide apertures.Addressing the sharpness issue: There are tolerances in all manufactured products. Scientific, precise products like high resolution camera sensors and the placement/alignment of that sensor and the rear lens element. Even 2 mm off is relatively serious in terms of tolerances. The reason I am mentioning this is because sometimes you get this lens and it appears to be \"soft\" but it's really at the other end of the tolerance scale when compared to the camera. When you get a lens that \"matches\" your camera body, the results are startling, as you can tell from the comments on this site. I went through 3 lenses before I \"accepted\" the 1st one I bought. Some vendors like Amazon and their affiliates are very cooperative in helping you match your camera to your new lens. When you get one, you are going to be very satisfied. My second lens was purchased after an accident which damaged my system, after repair by Canon it came back perfect. Now I have two. And that's come in handy on several trips.It doesn't have Internal Stabilization which is not a problem for me, I use it on a tripod for serious landscapes, both day and night.In summary, this is not a \"hobby\" lens even though it's not priced like a professional lens. It's a true bargain and will provide very high performance.  Don't hesitate to make this part of your system, it will pay you many dividends in amazing photographs.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best Lens for the Price in ALL of Canon's lineup.", "unixReviewTime": 1323993600, "reviewTime": "12 16, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A18U05IGMK1FVV", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "Alvin English", "helpful": [33, 37], "reviewText": "I purchased this lens to go with my Canon 20D.Now, I understand what all the fuss is about.  You must use this lens to believe the quality.  This lens took my photos to another level.  I am making pictures I could only dream of before.  The Canon 24-70mm f/2.8L USM is well worth the price.  When so many serious photographers using Canon equipment recommend the same lens as a must have - BUY IT!!!Gee, I sound like one of those t.v. infomercials.  As you can tell, I am just a little excited about this lens.  :)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Yes - it is that good", "unixReviewTime": 1142726400, "reviewTime": "03 19, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2VZM2A3E3FUPI", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "Andrew Vaughan \"Nova\"", "helpful": [24, 26], "reviewText": "This is a fantastic lens.  It takes crisp, rich photos, has a large apperature that makes for impressive low-light photography, and includes USM technology for lightening-fast focusing.  Since I am only a serious hobbyist, I can't yet afford another quality Canon lens...but for 2 years I have been perfectly happy to leave this lens on the camera (a 10D).  Portraits, landscapes, indoor shots with no flash...it can do them all with ease, and the photos look great.This lens is a little heavy, and combined with my 10D the weight is certainly a consideration.  But to me it feels well-balanced on the camera, and I like the substantial feel that the lens-camera combination gives.  If you plan to use a flash, remember that this is a big lens and the built-in flash may not clear the barrel (especially on the 10D, before Canon redesigned the pop-up flash)...might want to think about an external flash head for the hot shoe.There's a lot of glass on the front of this lens, don't forget the UV filter for a little extra protection.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Never Leaves the Camera", "unixReviewTime": 1163548800, "reviewTime": "11 15, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1HDFJPFVV4G4", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "B. Driver", "helpful": [21, 23], "reviewText": "This is a great lens. The pictures I take are very sharp and alive with color, and the brokeh is excellent. I am a big fan of keeping a shallow depth of field when shooting people or animals, so the f/2.8 helps out. Also dim wedding receptions are no problem with even the weak built in flash on my Rebel XT. The autofocus is practically silent, accurate and very fast.If you don't think you need f/2.8, go for the 24-105mm f/4 L IS. It has an extra 35mm on the telephoto end, image stabilization, and is lighter and smaller.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "One of the best", "unixReviewTime": 1155772800, "reviewTime": "08 17, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2X0GHAHQVXO4F", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "blekenbleu", "helpful": [11, 19], "reviewText": "A fine lens, but I find the 16-35mm more generally useful on a 20D.This might be my first choice for a 5D or other full frame body,but for APS-C sensors recommend a 200+ telephoto as second lens before this.Keep in mind that anything less than f/2.8compromises autofocus on the 20D or 30D.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Third of 3 for 20D", "unixReviewTime": 1168732800, "reviewTime": "01 14, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A255QXIRWUUPDL", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "Carl Deren \"Innocent victom\"", "helpful": [11, 29], "reviewText": "We are a professional photographer couple working always with Amazon on our professional photography equipment. This lens is great but a bit pricey. It takes 5 * indeed regarding it's quality. But this time we have been ripped of by  J-Tech Digital, Inc. We purchased Canon 24-70mm L lens from them. Canon lens was not needed anymore by the next day and the UPS shipment has been rejected by us without actually receiving the lens or opening the shipping package. Seller did give a partial refund and cut 100's of dollars after 10 days even though they promised to issue an immediate full refund. Amazon dispute is opened and if we are lucky enough we might take back what we have lost for no reason from this seller. As far as our experience and our knowledge if you reject a shipment, you should get a full refund immediately. This lens is sold around $1400 so, be careful if you purchase as if it is a Canon 24-70mm L Mark II, this is not that lens. BEWARE of this seller.UPDATE: AMAZON REVIEW SITE SERVES TO WARN THE BUYER FOR QUALITY OR SELLER OF THAT ITEM, SO FOR THE ONES WHO INSIST THIS REVIEW BEEN REMOVED, THEY DON'T KNOW WHAT AMAZON REVIEWS SERVE FOR...UNFORTUNATELY, SELLER HERE TRIES TO SELL A $1300 ITEM OVER $2000 AND IF YOU DO A MISTAKE TO PURCHASE THIS ITEM THINKING AS THIS 24-70 MARK II, THIS WILL BE YOUR ONE OF BIGGEST MISTAKE, BECAUSE SELLER WILL TRY TO TAKE ADVANTAGE FROM YOU AND CHARGE AROUND 10% RESTOCKING FEE, PLUS THE ORIGINAL SHIPPING EVEN THOUGH YOU HAD UNDERSTOOD YOUR MISTAKE ON TIME AND TRIED TO CANCEL THE ITEM OR REFUSE THEIR SHIPMENT. PLEASE LOOK AT THE SELLER'S REFUND POLICY, THEY DON'T EVEN WRITE WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPENED TO YOU WHEN YOU ASK A REFUND FROM THEM. THEY ONLY SAY ON THEIR POLICY PAGE \"SELLER'S RULES AND REGULATIONS WILL APPLY\" BUT WHO KNOWS WHAT? YOU DON'T KNOW THIS BEFORE BUYING FROM THEM. MOREOVER AMAZON WILL PERMIT THAT. YOU WILL OPEN AN A TO Z AMAZON BUYER PROTECTION CASE AND WILL LOOSE IT. WE TRIED TO BRING THIS ISSUE TO AMAZON LEGAL DEPARTMENT BUT DIDN'T TAKE ANY RESULTS YET. OF COURSE THIS REVIEW CAN BE CANCELLED IF SELLER REFUNDS WHAT THEY COLLECTED FROM US AND PROMISE NOT TO TAKE ADVANTAGE FROM ANY OF THEIR BUYERS. WILL UPDATE AGAIN WHEN THIS ISSUE WILL BE RESOLVED.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "We have been a victim of  J-Tech Digital, Inc", "unixReviewTime": 1355184000, "reviewTime": "12 11, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A3JWUUSLIGTBHM", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "ChrisInCali", "helpful": [24, 35], "reviewText": "I've heard that this lens suffers from an alleged case of having a lot of \"bad copies\" out there.  Even knowing that I purchased the lens thinking that many of the bad reviews were by people that didn't know how to properly use this lens, or weren't used to shooting without image stabilization, ect.  Boy was I wrong, this lens is the biggest disappointment I have ever had with any pro zoom.  It's soft all of the place.  The center is clearly the sweet spot, but even then from F/2.8(the reason you buy a lens like this) all the way up until F/4.5 this thing is soft soft soft!  I was using shutter speeds of 1/500th of a sec, and tripod mounted my camera.  I checked and rechecked the focus.  Everything was good, but the lens consistent gave picture that would be embarrassing even for a kit lens.  Serious, my 18-55mm crummy kit lens gives better images at F/4.5 than this pro grade lens does.  Wow.I don't know if it's just a \"bad copy,\" but I bought this lens in March of 2010... so I would think by now Canon couldn't still be sending out \"bad copies\" of such an old lens.  No, I'm thinking that they need to completely change the formula because the current was isn't good at all.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Unacceptably soft at all apertures.", "unixReviewTime": 1269043200, "reviewTime": "03 20, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "AVI9JU8RJUVWD", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "CJ \"CJ\"", "helpful": [20, 42], "reviewText": "Check out some of the tests that people have done on these two lenses.  Do a search on \"24-70 18-55 canon\".  I bought the 24-70 and expected to see an obvious difference in quality...  there isn't any (this was very disappointing to me).  I was surprised to see that in many cases that the kit lens pictures were actually better.  On sharpness, the 18-55 had the edge in my controlled tests using same aperture, tripod and remote shutter release etc.  I was very excited to get this lens,  I checked on its arrival date about 10 times while it was in the mail to me.  But I run a procurement department for a Fortune 100 firm, so by nature I am coldly analytical.  Simply put, the tests on the 24-70 just don't show anything close to a $1200 difference.  This is confirmed by tests that others have done.  I am sending it back and will use my 18-55 for a walkaround lens and my Canon f1.4 50mm ($400) for those special pictures with a beautiful bokeh and/or low light shooting capability (which on both counts the f1.4 is far superior to the 24-70).  Other things I noticed as I worked with the 24-70 is that for a cropped body like my XSI, it is not too long on wide angle as some others had complained. However with my f1.4 50mm though this can be an issue.  As for professional photographers, I understand why they use it: the 24-70mm handles most types of shots for a wedding so no lens changes which means no lost picture opportunities in a fast moving wedding (this is very important to them, and rightfully so!), it provides a nice bokeh at f2.8, and it can shoot without a flash in some, but not nearly all, lower light situations.  So for me the trade-offs are some lens changes and some difficulty with the 50mm being too long on some shots due to the cropped body.  But on the plus side, I will get as sharp or even sharper pictures using the combination of lens (18-55mm and the f1.4 50mm),  and with the f1.4, far better low light shooting and the best bokeh available.  Don't be a lemming and buy this because it is an L lens and therefore expected to be far superior.  Also don't take seriously those who haven't done a true comparison between the two lenses as they are working off of assumptions not facts.  I also don't think that I have a \"bad copy\" as no one has posted a valid test with results that clearly shows how superior the 24-70 is.  It seems unlikely that only those who have \"bad copies\" are the ones doing tests.  Lastly, know that your 18-55 is a truly great lens.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "For the amatuer, 18-55mm kit lens is just as good as the 24-70", "unixReviewTime": 1245456000, "reviewTime": "06 20, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "AWAV9TGXRIXI", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "Cory Geurts", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "I bought this lens for two reasons: to replace my kit lens (Canon EF 28-135mm f/3.5-5.6 IS USM Standard Zoom Lens for Canon SLR Cameras) with some serious L glass, and for the wide angle coverage.  The other lenses I use most frequently areCanon EF 70-200mm f/4L USM Telephoto Zoom Lens for Canon SLR CamerasandCanon EF 85mm f/1.8 USM Medium Telephoto Lens for Canon SLR Cameras.This lens is very sharp, and captures excellent colors, which I have come to expect from L-series lenses.  This lens is more than adequately weather sealed, so I can use it with confidence under circumstances where I would tend to hesitate with my other lenses.  After returning from a weekend at the beach, it was amazing to see how many airborne sand particles had been caught by the rubber weather sealing, almost like flies stuck to fly-paper.  I was able to use a compressed air can to blow the tiny sand particles away from the external rubber seals - particles that almost certainly would have penetrated most other lenses.I have heard that constant mounting and dismounting of lenses that have weather sealing around the bayonette mount, like this one does, can wear-out the weather seal.  For this reason I am trying to be cautious both about using a more gentle mounting/dismounting technique, and about trying to avoid frequently switching out lenses when possible.  The seal can be replaced, but at a cost.A quick word about this lens versus the 24-105mm f/4.  For me the choice was easy, because I have found I don't really use the Image Stabilization on other lenses I own.  I have a pretty steady hand, and for longer shutter speeds I use a tripod anyway.  But I do often go down to a f/2.8 aperture.  And I already have the over-70mm coverage with my 70-200mm lens, so for me this lens is a better match than the 24-105.One interesting thing to note is that unlike many zoom lenses, this lens actually extends outward as the distance is reduced.  This means that for wide-angle shots it is possible to get shadows when using a camera-mounted flash, even without the hood attached.  Shooting under ambient light is an alternative, but that means boosting-up the ISO and/or decreasing the shutter speed.  Of course this works much better with modern equipment than in the days of film cameras, but isn't always the best option.This minor annoyance aside, I love this lens and wouldn't trade it for any existing comparable lens.  It is heavier than most other wide-angle zooms, but not excessively so.  The 24-70mm range provides good coverage, and when paired with a 70-200mm or even the 70-300mm, you've got excellent coverage for almost all circumstances.The most important qualities in a lens for me are sharpness, color, and versatility, and this lens is right on the money.  The weather sealing is a huge bonus.  A valuable lens!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The right lens for me", "unixReviewTime": 1279238400, "reviewTime": "07 16, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "APACPDT42SJI3", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "C. Ramirez", "helpful": [17, 19], "reviewText": "I just received this lens. I am moving up from a Canon EF-S 17-85mm f/4-5.6 IS USM lens, which is the lens I bought with the body of my Xsi.  This is my first DSLR, and got into it about 6 months ago with the birth of my first child.  Since then I have been steadily getting better, fumbling my way into taking better pictures.  After six months of taking about 5,000 pictures, I am now confident I can take technically correct pictures ( I learn the hard way).  I decided I wanted to see what all the fuss was about with L lenses, also I wanted something with a constant aperture so I didn't have to mess with my settings every time I zoomed in or out.After looking over several options I chose the Canon EF 24-70mm.  Right out of the box, I knew I wasn't fooling around any more, the 24-70mm L Lens looks like it ate my EF-S 17-85mm.  Heavy.  But I am a big strong lad and don't mind......it is much harder to zoom back in by turning this lens, I assume because I am moving a lot more glass when I twist the ring.  Looks to be durable. Happy that it came with the lens hood, I didn't really want to buy another $40 piece of plastic like I did for the 17-85mm.  The lens bag it comes with is also appreciated but doesn't protect the lens much so I assume it just to keep your lens from getting dusty.As previously stated by more qualified people then myself, this lens produces some crisp images.  After taking the time to set the correct exposure and white balance, I took a few shots and was very pleased with the output.  I took the pictures indoors with no flash and at a high ISO, and the pictures were still, to my eye, great.  I also have a little anxiety after plunking down a chunk of my hard earned money, I want to feel like I got my money's worth. I am happy to say this is not a purchase I regret, thus far.Only downside to this lens is you can't hide with this thing,for  a normal zoom lens its BIG. it draws attention along with bad jokes about your need to compensate for other short comings.It's not cheap and it won't make you  a better photographer, but it might let you do more in less then favorable light.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Budding Enthusiast's POV", "unixReviewTime": 1230854400, "reviewTime": "01 2, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A28YEO2J0XTA41", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "Donald D. Farra", "helpful": [40, 43], "reviewText": "I normally buy prime lenses for higher performance compared to zooms, but purchased the 24-70 based on recommendations and hands on checkout in the store.  I have to admit it surprised me, after 35 years of shooting with both types of lenses this is the first zoom to come close and in some cases equal my prime lenses.  Yes, it is heavy, but so are carrying 4 prime lenses to replace it.  Bottomline this is the last lens I will let go of, out of all the Canon and Nikon lenses I own.  It is that good.  I find it useful for travel, portraits and weddings where I cannot always back away or get closer to compose the frame, this is where the 24-70 shines.  The AF is fast and quiet, with on demand manual focus override for those times where AF doesn't select the proper subject.  Only the newest lens out from Canon with Image stabilization might better this one.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Equal to prime lenses?", "unixReviewTime": 1141948800, "reviewTime": "03 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2YK9IAX4HZEJW", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "ED F \"ShutterBug\"", "helpful": [17, 94], "reviewText": "Extremely disappointed with this lens.  Poor focus after 15', Images never sharp under any condition. Not at all what you would expect from an L series. Lots of $$$$ poor performance. Working on third copy. Unfortunately did not get chance to evaluate prior to warranty running out.CAUTION!!!!PS failed to research product reviews prior to purchase, My Bad, Better luck to all!", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "DO NOT BUY!", "unixReviewTime": 1224201600, "reviewTime": "10 17, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A2DG63DN704LOI", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "Eric Slay", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "If I had to have only one lens, this would be it. It is not my favorite (that's the 85L 1.2), but it is certainly the most versatile and most used.If you are considering the 24-105L 4.0, let me help. 4.0 is too slow for an L lens. My partner owns it and it doesn't get much use. Having a stabilizer is great to handhold a shot of something that isn't moving, but to keep people from being blurry, the 2.8 goes a long way.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Here's some advice from a photographer...", "unixReviewTime": 1233273600, "reviewTime": "01 30, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A2F4ASFPWFGWJG", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "Eric Strate Photography", "helpful": [273, 277], "reviewText": "UPDATE - October 3: Wanted to update my review on this lens after using it for a couple weddings and portrait shoots lately.  Normally, these wouldn't warrant an update for a lens that is so obviously well-suited to these roles, but this lens literally saved the day. I was shooting a wedding in one of the most difficult type of circumstances - never seen the location before, had 15 minutes before the ceremony to scope things out, had no chance to get my basic flow figured out by watching a rehearsal and this place was an exposure nightmare - black tuxes, white dresses in a very poorly lit chapel.  I was shooting with a backup camera (50D - great camera, read my review, but it doesn't perform well enough at high ISO for me to trust it for a wedding shoot as I don't want any noise introduced into things.)  So I knew I was going to be limited to some extent in terms of the freedom I'd have to play with different F-stops - I was going to need to be wide open to shoot at an ISO that I trust on the 50D for weddings (no higher than 200 in my experience) and have a shutter speed that wouldn't give me motion blur during the proceedings.  Suffice it to say that I was more than pleased with how sharp things were at F2.8.  I don't know that I could have done the same thing - on this camera - with the 24-105.  That extra full stop down to 2.8 was absolutely critical.  On another note, aspiring wedding photographers would be well advised to make an initial investment in a 5D Mark II or something in the 1D lines if you really want the freedom to work at high ISO and not worry about image degrading noise.  I am ultra-picky about noise, so perhaps what I notice wouldn't bother some, but the investment will be worth it in the quality of your work.  40D and 50D are wonderful prosumer cameras (high level consumer/amateur, entry level professional), but the 5D and 1D series truly set themselves apart at higher ISOs.  50D is a perfect backup, or a great second camera if you want to throw a 70-200 or something ultra-wide on it and switch to that on the fly during the wedding.  This lens pays for itself again and again.Perhaps the most common agony-inducing lens choice that Canon L-series fans may run into is the choice between the 24-70 F2.8 and the 24-105 F4 IS.  People waiver back and forth between the benefits of the 2.8 aperture vs. the IS and extra reach of the 105. Some say there isn't a wrong choice because both lenses are both so good.  I have a slightly different take - both lenses are good, they are both phenomenal, but you CAN make the wrong choice here, depending on the kit you already have and what you need the lens for.First off - the IS vs. the F2.8.  The 24-105 has image stabilization - a definite plus in low light, handheld situations.  While IS is great for up to 3 stops of exposure to prevent camera shake, it isn't going to freeze motion.  To do that, you need shutter speed.  To get shutter speed in lower light situations, you need wide aperture (and you want QUALITY glass so things are sharp wide-open).  I am not knocking the 24-105 at all, but the way I see it the F2.8 outweighs the benefit of IS - it lets you go up to a shutter speeds where camera shake shouldn't be an issue (especially in the 24-70mm focal length range) and is pin sharp at that aperture.  And these shutter speeds let you freeze action - good if you want to capture a toast in lower light at a wedding or something (unless a bit of motion blur is desired, which can easily be obtained...but if you don't have the 2.8 to begin with, there is no adjustment you can make to compensate save for bumping your ISO up and introducing more noise).  So in the debate over the benefit of 2.8 on the 24-70 vs. IS on the 24-105, I think the nod goes to the 24-70.Next, the extra reach (to 105mm on a full frame or 168mm equivalent on an APS-C like the 40D, 50D, Rebels).  In this case, you might think about the lenses you've got or that you plan to purchase.  For example, the 70-200mm zooms that Canon makes in its L-series are INCREDIBLY popular lenses, for good reason.  Whether you have the 70-200 F2.8 with or without IS or the 70-200 F4 with our without IS, you have yourself an excellent piece of glass with those mid-range zooms.  If you have one, or if you are planning on getting one, the 24-70 becomes the perfect compliment to them, giving you L-series performance from 24-200mm - if you have the 70-200 F2.8 you've got the ability to shoot at that wide aperture from 24-200mm - a very, very useful ability to have.  Granted, the 24-105 saves you from having to switch lenses if you are in the 70-105mm range, but I don't know if that is too much of an inconvenience.  I will say this, if you EVER plan on owning the 70-200 F2.8, you owe it to yourself to get the 24-70 F2.8 now.  Remember, F/2.8 is a full stop ahead of F/4 in light gathering capability, so if you are somewhat new to all of this, you will collect double the light at F2.8 than you will at F4 - meaning you could shoot at twice the shutter speed and get the same exposure as you would at F4 with a given shutter speed. I know many pro's that look at aperture as being the #1 priority with any lens purchase, always get as much of it as possible.  So, if you have any plans of ever owning one of the very popular 70-200mm mid range zooms from Canon, I think the 24-70 is the better choice.Now let's discuss image quality.  In this case, there is no loser.  The F2.8 lets you get shallower DOF. I've read some reports saying the 24-70 is sharper across more focal lengths and apertures and others that say the opposite, but when you are comparing the sharpness of these two lenses you are really splitting hairs.  My 24-70 is PIN SHARP at F2.8 - so sharp that I was literally stunned when I took my first test shots of the kids playing in the yard in the early evening.  Motion was frozen perfectly and details all the way down to their eyes were extremely sharp - there is no way I could have done this and gotten the results I did with anything but the freedom I had to shoot at 2.8 with a higher shutter speed in the evening light.  Sure, I could have shot at F4 with double the ISO and managed to keep the same shutter speed, but as I said before, the noise factor creeps in (to be fair, higher end Canon's do a great job with high ISO and noise).  But in cases where the need for the extra aperture isn't an issue, both of these lenses are superb.  You can't go wrong with either as far as image quality goes.Based on all this, it probably sounds like I'd never recommend the 24-105 over the 24-70.  But I would.  If you are planning on owning only one L-series lens (financially this is a very real issue for most of us) and want the ULTIMATE is high quality walkaround lens - a lens that will let you do professional quality work and has the added benefit of image stabilization, then I'd say go with the 24-105.  If, however, you plan on owning the aforementioned mid-range zooms and plan on doing things like event photography in poorly lit indoor settings, I think the 24-70 is the way to go.One more thing, if you get either of these lenses, don't plan on putting anything less than a high quality filter on them.  L-series lenses need very high quality filters or you are going to suffer degradation in image quality.  Spend the extra $80-100 (or more) and get a nice B+W UV filter.Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions about this lens or if there is some aspect of the decision between these lenses you didn't see here that you are interested in.2ND UPDATE - June 29: After borrowing one off and on for several months, I have also added an 85mm F1.8 to my collection (look for my review on it if you want the details).  Because I know that some people may be reading this review in the hopes of deciding on a good lens for portrait photography, I wanted to quickly reference this other lens as an option. First, the 24-70 F2.8L continues to prove itself a great investment.  It is a true workhorse lens for wedding photography, giving you a very useful combination of zoom and width, nice shallow depth of field with great sharpness at F2.8, and phenomenal build quality (after shooting an outdoor wedding in the pouring rain I really came to appreciate the rubber seal this lens has around the rear element where the lens connects to the camera.) So while I am obviously still a big proponent of the 24-70 as a portrait and general purpose lens, I have to mention that if you are really stressing out about the cost of this lens, you might seriously consider the Canon 85mm F1.8.  For around $380, this lens provides you with AMAZING portrait opportunities, incredible shallow depth of field with great sharpness at the focal points and silky smooth bokeh in the background. So, if a portrait lens is what you are looking for and the cost of L-series glass is an issue, consider the 85.  Obviously it is not as versatile as the 24-70 and there are some additional optical characteristics that make L series glass a bit better than non-L series glass, but the 85 F1.8 could be used for a professional portrait shoot without any concern at all.  Best of both worlds - get the 85 AND the 24-70! :) Email me if you have any questions about this lens or equipment in general and I'll help if I can.  My contact info can be found at my website.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Read this if you are debating the 24-70 vs the 24-105", "unixReviewTime": 1250467200, "reviewTime": "08 17, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A3M06TE1J42O3T", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "erugifog \"erugifog\"", "helpful": [717, 733], "reviewText": "I've owned the 24-70mm for almost a year now.  This lens has been a favorite of many since it replaced its well-regarded predecessor, the 28-70mm.  It shoots images that are very sharp and have excellent contrast and saturation.  It's sharp wide open and only gets better when stopping down.  The USM (Ultrasonic Motor) focuses very fast, and full-time manual focusing is allowed.  I've thought about buying a 50mm f/1.4, but the results from this lens are so good, I'm having a hard time justifying the purchase.  I've been nothing but pleased with the pictures I get from the 24-70mm.  The constant f/2.8 aperture is great for shooting indoors and produces a very nice bokeh (background blur) when shooting portraits.  This lens is much heavier than comparable consumer-grade zooms, but I don't object to the weight.  I actually like the heft and feel of this lens on my 20D.  The only feature I wish it had is IS (image stabilization).The one thing preventing an unqualified recommendation is the recent release of the Canon 24-105mm f/4.0L IS.  The latter lens costs about the same and has some noteworthy advantages.  It is .7\" shorter, .2mm narrower and .6 lbs. lighter.  It has 3rd generation IS that gives you a 3-stop shutter speed advantage when shooting handheld.  I know from my 70-200mm f/2.8L IS that image stabilization is a very welcome feature when shooting handheld at slow shutter speeds.  And, obviously, the 24-105mm adds an extra 35mm of focal length on the long end.The 24-70mm bests the 24-105mm in one way: It's a faster lens.  That translates into the following advantages: At f/4.0, the 24-105mm cannot stop subject motion blur as well in low-light situations where the 24-70mm's f/2.8 can give you a shutter speed that is twice as fast.  Note that IS does not have any impact at all on subject motion blur, only on camera shake on your end.  If bokeh (background blur) is important to you, the 24-70mm will have a slight advantage over the 24-105mm given its wider aperture.  A wider aperture also helps a camera focus a little better in low light.The first run of the 24-105mm had a flare problem (see Canon's Web site for more info), and the early production models have been recalled.  But the problem has now been fixed.  You'll have to consider your photography priorities when deciding which of these two excellent lenses best suits your needs.  You would be well served by either.Update 2-12-12: It's been over six years since I wrote this review, and I continue to use and enjoy my 24-70mm, which is now paired with a Canon 7D.  Anyone considering buying this lens today, however, should know that Canon announced on 2-7-12 the successor to this lens: The 24-70mm f/2.8L II.  Contrary to rumors that had been circulating for years, the mark II version does not add image stabilization.  Canon's USA website lists the MSRP for the new lens at $2,299.00.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A great general-purpose lens", "unixReviewTime": 1134604800, "reviewTime": "12 15, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2I32IXSFQ8NV3", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "George", "helpful": [32, 42], "reviewText": "I thought Amazon confused the version I with version II but apparently not.  Version I is a great lens and deserves 5 stars but has been discontinued and should sell for about half of the cost of the new version II.  Version II is the sharpest zoom lens I have ever used and for an additional $300 is a better choice.  It deserves 6 stars.  Many of the recent reviews here are actually talking about version II.  Offering version I at $2300 is big rip off and should be avoided.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Amazon needs to clear up confusion", "unixReviewTime": 1350172800, "reviewTime": "10 14, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A19MUBPFBF4TQU", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "Gil De Sousa, LensTests-com", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "Please don't take the Amazon star rating too serious - every lens has its pros and cons that I wouldn't want to squeeze into a single one-dimensional figure...A quick note about me: I have been into SLR cameras and lenses for more than 20 years - as a hobby in the beginning and professionally later. Maybe because of my technical background I started testing my own lenses quite a while ago. I have a (no longer so) little test lab of my own where I do 6 different image quality tests (after taking a lens out for a while).The EF 24-70mm f/2.8L USM is considered THE standard general purpose lens for professional use. I hardly know any (Canon) wedding photographer that doesn't own one (or hasn't owned one). It's solidly built, features a rugged metal lens mount and comes with a weather seal that allows shooting in (light) rain. It's a heavy (909 g / 32 oz) and bulky piece of equipment and the lens hood Canon supply with the lens is of massive size as well. But that's all for a good reason because the lens offers a great maximum aperture of f/2.8 throughout its focal range. This allows for narrow in-focus ranges (\"depth-of-field\") that give your images a nice look and it also enables shooting in low light conditions with fairly fast shutter speeds. Of course the lens also needs faster shutter speeds because it lacks an image stabilizer.The EF 24-70mm f/2.8L USM is equipped with a modern, fast, acurate and silent ring-type ultra sound focus motor. In the higher end Canon cameras the lens's maximum aperture enables additional focus sensors which enhance the accuracy of the focus further.The resolution of the EF 24-70mm f/2.8L USM is quite good for longer focal lengths but - to be honest - a little disappointing for 24 mm (which I use often with this lens). The cheaperEF 24-105mm f/4L IS USMis sharper at this focal length! On the other hand distortion is very well under control with the EF 24-70mm f/2.8L USM (for a zoom lens) and corner shadow / vignetting (though very intense at the wide angle) is pretty good at most focal lengths. But curvature of the focal plane (\"field curvature\") is a real issue with this lens. If you are shooting a straight subject like a group of people in a line-up and want everybody to be in perfect focus you will have to use high f-stops or avoid the wide end of the focal range. Whether this bothers you in real life photography really depends on what you are doing.Color fringes (\"chromatic abberrations\") both in focused (\"transverse CA\") and in out-of-focus (\"axial CA\") parts of the image are visible as well but they are not very intense. On the good side the circular aperture shape produces nicely even out-of-focus blur. Overall I would say that there are quite a couple of issues with the image quality of this lens and it seems like many of them have been addressed in the successor (the EF 24-70mm f/2.8L II USM) which - at the time of this review - had been announced but not released.I doubt that the good reputation of the EF 24-70mm f/2.8L USM comes from its image quality. If you are a pro you just need the fastest available lenses (and you usually can afford them) and for photo journalism or wedding photography image quality is really not all that important (in my opinion). But if you don't need f/2.8 you should take a close look at theEF 24-105mm f/4L IS USMwhich is cheaper, lighter, smaller, has an image stabilizer, a better zoom range and outperforms the EF 24-70mm f/2.8L USM in some of the image quality tests. But of course it's just not an f/2.8 lens.I have used both for several years and I still switch back and forth. I wouldn't recommend either of them for use with an APS-C camera though because the resulting effective focal range is just not as useful. Check out theEF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS USMand theEF-S 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 IS USMif you are not shooting full frame.There are good reasons for buying the EF 24-70mm f/2.8L USM but whether it's the right lens for you really depends on what you are doing and on what's most important to you.A much more detailed review of this lens together with all test shots, sample images and technical data is available on my website LensTests_com.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Does the image quality reflect its good reputation?", "unixReviewTime": 1336521600, "reviewTime": "05 9, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "AU5U16YWAIYZP", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "Grant Brummett", "helpful": [31, 36], "reviewText": "I purchased this lens as a backup to my Canon EF-S 17-55 IS for wedding photography.  I will be using it when my daughter is photographing a wedding with me and she will be using the EF-S lens and myself the 24-70mm on my Canon 5D Mark II.  I performed some tests back to back and both lens are amazingly sharp at normal distances.  Plus it's a good compliment to the other lens because of a slightly different reach.  I also found the 24-70 to be better at macro photography as it can blow the subject up larger and seems sharper at very closes ranges.  And the 24-70 seemed to have a little better contrast and colors.  The 24-70 is much heavier then the EF-S and does not have IS.  But it does have a little more reach and is weather sealed.I was disappointed that my copy of the 24-70 has the same poor grabby zoom feel as the EF-S lens. All my other Canon L zooms have buttery smooth zoom action especially my 17-40 F/4 L.  The 24-70 is sharper then the 17-40 F4 L on the long end at 40mm but surprise of surprises the 17-40 is sharper then the 24-70 at 24mm towards the wide end.  But Surprise after sending my 24-70 in for repairs the zoom is much better and it's actually sharper then the 17-40 at all settings now.Also the long length of this lens blocks the built in flash for 40D and Rebels in bottom part of photos.  This should not be a problem for most people in this budget range as the cost of a Canon Speedlite is not that high and completely solves the problem.Bottom line though is the color, saturation and sharpness of this lens are simply second to none in the Canon  wide angle zoom arena.Pros:Very sharp stopped downWeather sealedGreat lens hood includedGreat colors and contrastGreat USM super fast auto focusThat little red ring around the end of the lens!Length does not change when zoomed if lens hood is mountedThis lens has Auto Lens Vignetting correction using peripheral Illumination control see Auto Vignetting comments below:Cons:CostSizeHeavyRepair prone, the most likely to need repair lens I have (see below)Very soft wide open (sent back to Canon for Calibration and they fixed it see update 10-6-2008 below)Wide angle a little narrow on cropped sensor camerasBlocks built in flash for 40D and Rebels in bottom part of photosZoom action was poor and grabby when new but later went smooth after a few hundred photosWould be nice if it had Image Stabilization IS (Canon does not have a single IS wide angle L lens)8-6-08 UpdateI find myself mainly using this lens during weddings when my daughter is using my Canon EF-S 17-55 F/2.8 IS lens.  Over the zoom range the 17-55 is sharper and the contrast is very similar but the big difference is the 17-55 has Image Stablization (IS)  and is much lighter and can go much wider when needed.  The IS makes a huge difference in a very dark location like inside a church lit by candle light when you may already be at 3200 ISO just to get the shot.  There are times I can use the extra reach of the 24-70 but more and more if I am free to move about and approach the bride and groom during the ceremony this makes the extra reach of the 24-70 unncessary.  Still I am keeping the 24-70 for use on a full frame camera like the new 6D whenever it comes out.For the most part the EF-S 17-55 IS F/2.8 is THE lens I have on my 40D most of the time.  If I wasn't shooting weddings and wasn't going to be adding a full frame camera to my arsnel I would suggest buying just the 17-55 IS F/2.8 and not the 24-70 at all.9-12-2008 Update Canon EF-S 17-55 F/2.8 IS vs Canon 24-70 F/2.8 L:I am taking photos tonight of a stage special and again will need to use both my Canon 17-55 F/2.8 IS lens and my Canon 24-70 F/2.8 L lens since my daughter and I will be shooting at the same time.  I can't help comparing the two again.  The 17-55 feels much lighter but at the same time feels so much cheaper in the hand between the cheap plastic feel the grabbing in the center of the zoom and the plastic build.  The 24-70 feels like a heavy quality jewel that will last two life times or more and it's weather sealed.  Still if you have to carry the 24-70 around for a few hours you wish for the lighter weight of the 17-55. The 17-55 has a wider view but the 24-70 has more reach.  The 17-55 seems sharper throughout the range but seems to have just a little less contrast and slightly cooler colors then the 24-70.  The zoom on my 24-70 is now almost broken in and feels smooth as silk and totally professional the 17-55 zoom feels like a cheap plastic toy and when you zoom even with a lens hood the front of the lens moves in and out. The 24-70 length does not change as long as you have the lens hood mounted.  The 17-55 has image stabilization and the 24-70 does not so I end up using a monopod for most dark shots with the 24-70.  The 17-55 is an EF-S and will not fit a full frame camera, the 24-70 will.  I'm thinking forward to the future  when I will be adding a full frame Canon camera body to my collection and I think the 24-70 will be perfect on that camera.9-16-2008 Update:After comparing photos to my friends taken wide open at F/2.8 I'm seeing a problem with the photos being much softer then his.  We both have Canon 40D's and so I have to wonder if there is a back focus or front focus problem.  I am going to send in to Canon and see what they say.Auto Vignetting peripheral illumination control:Canon has this super sweet Auto Lens Vignetting correction that works with this lens both in camera with JPEG's and in RAW using peripheral Illumination control in Canon Digital Photo Professional (DPP) when using newer Canon digital EOS cameras (Canon Rebel XSi, 40D, 5D Mark II etc.) . No more vignetting when shooting wide open!!! When shooting Raw open the file(s) in DPP and click on NR/Lens Lens Aberration Correction / Tune and click on Peripheral illumination. The cameras listed above have already picked up the amount of vignetting based on focusing distance, zoom setting and F stop from the lens and the camera has saved the information with the Raw file. You can then adjust the amount under Peripheral Illumination if you don't like the amount automatically suggested. If you shot JPEG then you get the auto amount. SWEET!!!Conclusion:  In the end I will just have to keep both of them.Update 10-6-2008:I got my Canon 24-70mm F/2.8 L lens back from the Canon repair facility and it is tack sharp at F/2.8 at all zoom settings close up and tack sharp from 35mm to 70mm out near infinity.  It's still a little soft at 24mm at F/2.8 near infinity but much better then it was.The zoom feels much better.I'm a very happy camper!!!Here's what they said was wrong with it.\"We have examined the lens according to your request, and it was found that the adjustment of the pcb assembly was incorrect the image was blurred.  Electrical adjustments were carried out on the pcb assembly.  Other electrical adjustments, inspection and cleaning and mechanical adjustments were carried out.01-01-2009 Update:Vignetting:I have noticed on the full framed 5D Mark II my Canon 24-70 F/2.8 L lens with the peripheral illumination correction turned OFF the 5D Mark II images will severely vignette or be dark in the corners when shot wide open (F/2.8).  It's almost like looking through a dark tunnel.  It's especially noticeable shot wide open with the sky as a background.Canon Auto-correct to the rescue!!  With the peripheral illumination correction turned ON it's almost magical the darkening in the corners for your JPEG images is gone!  If you want you can even shoot in Raw mode and adjust the amount of Vignetting or darkness in the corners for effects such as when shooting portraits and you want to emphasis the person in the middle of the photo.  Just open the Raw photo in DPP and click on the NR/Lens / ALO tab and select Lens Aberration Correction Tune and adjust the peripheral illumination to suite by dragging the slider or entering and amount.  Or select all the photos in a directory and you can correct all your photos at once.  This way you can either have no Vignetting or as much as you want.01-03-2009 Canon 5D Mark II Update:The 24-70 F/2.8 is great on the 5D Mark II like the 17-40 L and has better reach then the 17-40. But it does not have that uncanny you are there feel of photos taken with the Canon 100-400 IS L zoom lens. Thank GOD for the auto peripheral as this lens is a Vignetting monster when shot wide open on a 5D Mark II, it was not on the 40D. With the Vignetting control built into Digital Photo Professional (DPP) and the on-board 5D Mark II auto control it's perfect and Vignetting is not a problem. This lens is fragile and has required sending back to Canon for recalibration but is a must have in my arsenal. I'm hoping Canon will come out with an Image Stabilized improved version that has that you are there feel of the 100-400 zoom.3-18-2009 Update\":After getting this lens back from Canon repair it's turned into a better lens mounted on my Canon 5D Mark II at times approaching the look my Canon 17-40 F/4 L.  It's sharp at F/2.8 but then softer until about F/4 for some reason but that's fine as I either shoot wide open or stopped down to F/5.6 or so.  I'm much happier with it now after repair and the zoom action is smoother as well.  Still I'm worried that it may need repairs again.  I have other lenses I have even dropped onto the floor that are still flawless!!4-5-2009 Update:If I could shoot all day with the Canon 85mm F/1.2 II L I would.  The Canon 5D Mark II clearly out resolves the Canon 24-70 F/2.8 L lens and that is very disappointing for a lens that costs over a thousand dollars. But at a wedding where you can't always zoom with your feet I reach for the Canon 24-70 F/2.8 L. Its good on the 5D Mark II but not as good as the 17-40 L but it has better reach then the 17-40. It also does not have that uncanny you are there feel of the 85mm F/1.2 II L or even my Canon 17-40 F/4 L zoom.  Thank GOD for the auto peripheral as this lens is a Vignetting monster when shot wide open on a 5D Mark II, it was not on the 40D. With the Vignetting control built into Digital Photo Professional (DPP) and the on-board 5D Mark II auto control it's perfect and Vignetting is not a problem. This lens is also very fragile and has required sending back to Canon for recalibration but is a must have in my arsenal only because I do weddings. I'm hoping Canon will come out with an Image Stabilized improved version that has that you are there feel of the 100-400 zoom.  Once again it seems like this lens may be losing it's calibration and I am starting to lose my patience.  If I could I would change the rating to 3 stars!!!4-25-2009 Update:This lens is for sure going out of calibration again.  To say I'm ticked off is an understatement!  When you pay over a thousand dollars for an L lens you expect better.  No other Canon lens I own has gone out of calibration or had to be sent back for repairs.  I can hardly wait for the replacement lens to come out and I will try and get what I can out of this lens on e-bay.4-27-2009 I just got back from photographing the World Premiere of X-Men Origins: Wolverine and once again the 5D Mark II was awesome.  I ended up mainly using two lenses the Canon 24-70 F/2.8 L zoom and Canon 100-400 IS L zoom lens.  When you have only one chance to get Hugh Jackman  riding by on his Harley you want to make sure you have reliable quick focusing equipment.  You can see my photos from this shoot at [...]Lenses I currently own:Canon EF-S 17-55 F/2.8 IS Ultra sharp, great colors, great low light, poor zoom actionCanon EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 Rebel XTi Kit lens Muddy, slow, pile of junkCanon EF 17-40mm f/4 L Fantastic colors, sharp zoomed 17 to 24mm, ultra smooth zoom action, light weightCanon EF 24-70mm f/2.8 L Fantastic colors and contrast, sharp zoomed 40 to 70mm, zoom a little stiff at first, heavy, repair prone! Disappointing on the Canon 5D Mark IICanon EF 50mm f/1.8 II Good budget portrait lens, light weight, disposable, sharp from F/2.5Canon EF 85mm F/1.2 L II The best portrait lens for female and children clients, buttery smooth Bokeh, heavy and expensive it shares sharpness with 135mmCanon EF 135mm F/2.0 L The best portrait lens for males and tied with Canon 85mm F 1/.2 for sharpest lens I own, buttery smooth BokehCanon EF 70-200mm f/2.8 L fantastic colors, sharp for a zoom, very versatile ego boosting and attention getting and heavy! My favorite zoom lens!!!Canon EF 100-400mm f4.5-5.6L great IS, super colors, sharp for a zoom, extremely versatile, variable Bokeh, even more ego boosting and attention getting when extended and 400mm reach!!My next lens purchase I'm saving for right now: _Canon EF 200mm F/2 IS L the finest lens ever", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Very sharp on the narrow end 40 to 70mm but heavy", "unixReviewTime": 1210204800, "reviewTime": "05 8, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A21XREPFNR2154", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "G. Wagstaff \"Surfdog\"", "helpful": [19, 20], "reviewText": "I bought this at the same time as my 30D.  It's my \"every day - go to\" lens.  Is it big and bulky..?  Tough call...  Yeah it's a bit bigger and heavier than the average mid-zoom but then it's also a heck of a lot faster.  To say nothing about the image quality.This is the lens that pretty much lives on my camera.When I bought the 30D I got this, the EF-S 10-22 and the 70-200 2.8L.  With just those three I can pretty much handle any shooting situation.It will probably seem a bit heavy to those that are just moving up to SLR's (point-n-shoot users) but that's not enough reason to pass it up.  As I've been shooting for more than 20 years I didn't see a need to spend the extra on the \"IS\" version.  I have pretty good hand hold ability...and tripods & monopods if that fails.  Besides, that will add even more weight.Go ahead and get it...you know you want it!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "My \"go to\" lens", "unixReviewTime": 1145923200, "reviewTime": "04 25, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AF8XXTXR6MNL4", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "In the Middle of the Road", "helpful": [27, 29], "reviewText": "I think it very well could be so I'm not going to differ with those who say it is.I bought this to use with a new 5D and itt's simply outstanding in every regard. So far, I've kept it on the 5D and can't bring myself to take it off.I considered a couple of lenses, including the IS 24-105 f/4 which has a lot of appeal and the price is about the same. But this was the lens I chose in part because I already have a the 70-300mm f/4.5-5.6 DO IS Lens and the overlap seemed a waste while the extra stop helps.  I have no regrets about it. sharp as a tack and quick.I note that this is not compact lens, especially with the hood on and it can stretch out a lot when you widen the field. It is also not light. This lens and the 5D will give your neck and back a pain, assuming you work with more than one camera. But the focal lengths covered are just about ideal and require none of the compromises that a longer zoom range require. For that, I've got an 18-200 on a 20D. The 70-300 DO, while not an L, specs out in that range and has the virtue of real compactness, but it' not a lightweight. These two lenses cover just about everything for me. And I can keep the 10-22mm on the 20D for the extra-wide shots.Since writing the initial review, I've since traveled for several weeks with this lens and it fully lived up to expectations. Given the difficulties of travel these days, I am concerned about the problem of not being able to carry it with me -- not a problem to date except for Britain. But always possible. And, despite the weight, I might favor the 70-200 F/2.8L IS USM as a second travel lens- I like the brightness of the focus.One suggestion. There's a temptation to use this lens wide open a lot of the time. It's very good and sometimes that's the best thing. But I've also found this lens makes beautiful images stopped down a good deal for short night time exposures on a tripod and a remote release. The effect with lights, etc. is considerably different along with the extended depth of field.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Best All Around? Maybe", "unixReviewTime": 1154131200, "reviewTime": "07 29, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3IIFRWBVBGTZH", "asin": "B00009R6WT", "reviewerName": "Jay H", "helpful": [24, 45], "reviewText": "I just received this lens today and of course did some controlled comparative shooting against my other Canon L lenses and a 24-60 sigma. My control tests were with and without a flash on a tripod and wireless shutter release.I find the images very soft on the ends. From 4.0 to 20, photos were acceptable but not stunning. 5.6 seemed to give the sharpest picture which I find strange.Needless to say, this will be back in the mail tomorrow and just not in the mood to play swap and shop and praying for a descent copy. I can pull any sigma or any other brand off the shelf and get much better results at 1/4 the cost.I rated this 2 stars for excellent color and contrast, although this deserves 1 star.$1000 for this junk?  C'mon canon, get real.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Disappointing at best", "unixReviewTime": 1194220800, "reviewTime": "11 5, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A187XCC3BAY5BP", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "anthonyb", "helpful": [17, 19], "reviewText": "i have gone through numerous L series zooms... but after following the advice of many professional photographers, i took a big leap of faith and sold my prized 24-70 to get this 35mm. i have not regretted it one bit, best move i have made! this is by far the best lens i own, and is now my walkaround lens. you cannot beat the color, contrast, and sharpness (even wide open) of canon L primes. there is just something very special about the photos this 35L takes. i shoot it wide open 90% of the time, love the paper thin depth of field the f1.4 produces, even as wide as 35mm. also 35mm is wide enough to take pictures of large scenes, and produces little to no barrel distortion. i have learned to live without zoom... i just zoom with my fee these days. allows me to interact more with my subjects this way. if you have the money, and want only the best image quality you can get, i highly recommend this lens. it is one of the best lenses canon makes and is very highly regarded. i originally wanted a 50mm f1.2, but all of the mixed reviews scared me away. i am glad i went with the 35 though, as i tend to prefer wider focal lengths. i use this lens on my canon 5D classic. the images are breathtakingly awesome! it rarely leaves my camera.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best Lens I Own!", "unixReviewTime": 1326067200, "reviewTime": "01 9, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "AIQDXA5BDLDJB", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "Cc's Mom", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "I purchased this lens to replace my 24-70 f/2.8 as a walkaround lens due to it's weight. I found myself leaving the camrea at home if I was going to be carrying it with me for an extended period of time and I didn't like missing photo oppurtunities. I also have the 50mm 1.4 but for me it was never quite wide enough for my use, especially indoors.This lens is incredible. The pictures are extraordinary and the focal length is perfect for almost any use. I have used it for portraits of my son and also landscapes and it has excelled at everything. The 1.4 maximum aperture allows me to use this lens in almost any situation when combined with my 5D mark iii. I have found that shooting with prime lenses makes me think more about the pictures I take and I am finding myself in better positions to take better pictures the more I use primes. I am able to previsualize the picture before I take it and very rarely have to move very much after I am in position. I don't miss the zoom at all. My only regret is that I didn't buy this lens sooner. You can keep waiting for the rumored version ii or do yourself a favor and enjoy using this lens now.As for a previous reviwer commenting about the packaging from Amazon I did not have any issues. Everything was included in the box and it arrived very quickly with no damages.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Awesome Prime Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1348617600, "reviewTime": "09 26, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A2FF51S1P2XN87", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "Christine M. May \"HappyMama\"", "helpful": [15, 15], "reviewText": "I have both a Canon 5D MarkII and a Canon 50D...so I wanted a high-quality prime lens that would be a good primary lens for both cameras (taking into consideration the magnification factor on the 50D).  And this lens is perfect.  When I put it on the 50D, it's more like a 50mm, and when I put it on my 5D, it give the perfect amount of extra angle.  I love this lens!  If I go somewhere and don't want to take all of my equipment, I will strap this baby on without hesitation.  I notice that it's a little less sharp at f/1.4, so I mostly shoot with it at f/1.8 or f/2.0 and that gives me amazing bokeh and subject sharpness.I am primarily a wedding portrait photographer and love to get different angles and styles...this lens provides me with the most creative power.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Amazing bokeh", "unixReviewTime": 1236470400, "reviewTime": "03 8, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A2T61DILLRUPOE", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "Chtulhu's Pilot", "helpful": [11, 12], "reviewText": "This is the only lens I own for my Canon 40D. I bought it with the anticipation of taking pictures after the arrival of our first child. It's about 2.5 years since I bought this lens and the 40D I have taken 10,000 pictures through this lens. A majority of my pictures have been of our kids in varying light from bright sunlight to dim rooms and the lens is capable of handling any situation I've found myself wanting to take pictures of people. Since it's a prime lens you can't rely on bringing your subject closer to you by zooming but more times than not I'm taking pictures of people in a social environment so they are at a comfortable distance perfectly suited for a 35mm lens on a crop body.I've taken this lens on a few vacations as well and I've been happy with it's capability to capture most vacation type situations. It isn't wide enough to capture expansive objects (say a building, bridge, landcapes) from a tourist distance. But it does well in social situations and capturing the people you're with.I've even tried my hand at night photography, specifically starry nights. Wide open this lens does a great job in low light.Granted I'm a clear novice and I don't have any other lens to compare with but I'm not disappointed with my decision to buy a prime for my only lens nor deciding to buy this lens which has served me well as I've taken thousands of pictures of my family.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Not 1 complaint", "unixReviewTime": 1317513600, "reviewTime": "10 2, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A2F4ASFPWFGWJG", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "Eric Strate Photography", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "The Canon 35mm F1.4 is a lens that will produce some of the most beautiful images you'll ever take in nearly all conditions.  Before I get to all of the reasons I love this lens and would recommend it so highly, I am going to point out the one issue I have with it - purple fringing (I usually classify this particular type of chromatic aberration as its own beast, but I guess it falls into the overall category of CA.)  This lens produces some strong purple fringing in borders of two sharply contrasting areas.  I don't want this review to be a lesson on CA or purple fringing, so I'll just leave it at that - the lens has issues with it.  I've read that this is an issue with many primes. The fringing can be addressed in post processing via Lightroom and Photoshop, but all things considered I'd rather not have to add that to my workflow.  Oh well.  With the type of shooting I do, I honestly don't have to deal with issues arising from this that often, but I want to give a complete review of this lens, positives and negatives.  And that is the only negative.Now, on to the positives -1) Build Quality - This lens is very solid.  Doesn't feel like a brick the way my 24-70 F2.8L does, but its a solid lens all around.  Canon L-series lenses are always built well.  A LOT Of glass in this lens.  You might want to invest in a very high quality UV filter if you are at all worried about scratches to this beautiful glass.  But if you do, don't skimp on the UV filter - go with a nice B+H or something.2) Image Quality - Phenomenal.  My copy of the lens is tack sharp wide open at F1.4.  Ridiculously shallow depth of field at that aperture that allows you to set your subject apart from the background even when you are shooting at a bit of distance from them.  If you are shooting up close with this lens at F1.4 you need to be really aware of the shallow DOF because you can end up with things like one eye out of focus if a person's head is turned ever so slightly so that one is further from you than another.  This is Photography 101 type stuff, but with more and more newcomers to photography picking up DSLRs and investing in L-series glass, I figured I'd point that out - be aware of what aperture is going to get you the DOF you want - don't just shoot wide open all the time without thinking a bit about what the practical implications of this are!  This is a great storytelling lens on a full frame camera - wide enough to capture moments by letting you place your subject meaningfully in their surroundings in the frame.  At the same time, you can move up close and get some stunning shots that way as well.  I wouldn't choose this lens over a 50 or an 85 to shoot formal portraits/headshots with, but if you are planning on leaving this lens on the camera much of the time (something I find myself doing often) know that you can shoot up close without a ton of distracting distortion that can be an issue when shooting with a wide angle lens.  My point is that this lens can be a very versatile lens, especially on a full frame camera (I only use it on my 5D Mark II - I don't use it on my 1D Mark IV because I want the width this lens gives me at the full frame end of things moreso than any additional zoom I'd get from the 1.3x crop I get on the mark IV).  Colors are vivid and very well reproduced with the lens and it gives you beautifully smooth bokeh.  That smooth bokeh is accentuated by the sharpness of the lens from wide open to the end of its aperture range.3) Usefulness - Despite being prime lens on the wider end, this lens is very versatile.  As I mentioned, I routinely leave this on my 5DII for long periods of time.  It's also great for personal use, shooting birthdays, reunions, etc.  The width on full frame allows you to capture storytelling moments with wider compositions.  Moving in close to your subject allows you to fill the frame with a single person, face, etc., and with the shallow depth of field you can get some very interesting images in this way - eyes in focus, ears out of focus, etc.  In that way, it could be looked at as a good walkaround lens if you aren't in the need of zoom capability.  If its a zooming walkaround lens you are looking for, consider the 24-70 or the 24-105 (I wrote a long review on the 24-70 vs. the 24-105).4) Price - It's not cheap, but I'm not regretting the purchase in the least.  It has become my most frequently used lens for both business and personal shooting.  I'm finding myself more and more drawn to the primes, and will probably be adding the 135 F2 to my collection next.Highly recommended!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "An Amazing Lens - Especially on Full Frame...but watch for purple fringing", "unixReviewTime": 1310774400, "reviewTime": "07 16, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A2F4HP0J5VNOYR", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "Gauteng", "helpful": [32, 35], "reviewText": "I have been switching between a Canon 17-40 f/4 and a 50 f/1.4 for the everyday lens on my EOS 40D and I couldn't seem to find the sweet spot. The 50mm which is an effective 80mm on this body is always too limiting in interior situations such as birthday parties or small groups where its narrow field of view forces me to back away or take tighter crops than I would like. The 17-40 f/4 isn't fast enough for low light.After procrastinating over the price of the 35mm f/1.4L for some time, I finally took the leap. I am not disappointed - I now have a real standard lens and a fast one at that. It has a pleasant heft and is built with solid materials and a quality finish. It seems to focus much faster than the 50 f/1.4 and early test results are fantastic. It produces lovely warm colors, the bokeh is very pleasing and images have excellent sharpness. I have had the 35mm f/2 and that lens just is not in the same league though it is a good value choice. If you can afford this lens (even at the cost of dumping some of your others) and want a standard focal length on a non-full frame body, I strongly recommend it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Beautiful standard lens for an EOS 40D...", "unixReviewTime": 1229472000, "reviewTime": "12 17, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A2I32IXSFQ8NV3", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "George", "helpful": [62, 81], "reviewText": "I recently tried the 35mm f1.4 as a step up from by mainstay 28-70mm f2.8 zoom.  I found some other primes superior to a zoom, especially the 135mm f2.0 compared to the 70-200mm f4.0, but I found no improvement with the 35mm.  Both the 35mm and the 28-70mm zoom are excellent lenses at f2.8 and above.  Detail and contrast in the 35mm were noticeably lower at f1.4, especially at the edges (I use a full frame 1Ds and this not be as noticeable on a less than full frame digital body).  Those problems disappeared at f2.8 and higher but the image was only comparable to the zoom, not better, even at 100% magnification.  The 35mm may be a more useful lens for anyone who needs to shoot in low light without flash.  It is also lighter than the zoom and would be easier to haul around.  Since the prices are about the same for the 35mm f1.4 and 24-70 f2.8 zoom (which replaced the 28-70), a buyer should consider what features would be most useful when choosing.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Good but not superior to zoom", "unixReviewTime": 1143331200, "reviewTime": "03 26, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "ABH69EP8DDPKA", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "Hidenori Inagaki \"Hidenori Inagaki\"", "helpful": [190, 209], "reviewText": "I have this lens for very long time, and it is still one of the most frequently used L Prime for my assignment.Indeed, this lens has been very popular among commercial photographer who are doing full body portrait, in the particular market, this lens is often considered as premier portrait lens.I will not go into the wisdom of using 35mm as a portrait lens since it is really up to the judgment of individual photographer.In general, there are two type of people using this lens for professional purpose.Former is people who are shooting architecture/landscape and latter is people shooting portrait.While I do not use this lens much for commercial landscape photography purpose, I used this lens a lot for commercial portrait purpose.For the particular type of model...very often female model, I often do the model interview with this lens alone to determine how well this model will work with my project.This lens works really well with particular type of model. And since I worked with Far East market frequently on commercial/magazine assignment, this type of lens work out very well and indeed became workhorse of my production.You have to be mindful, 35mm focal length is bit tricky to do portrait.  So, you have to be careful with type of model you are using.It is also very useful for low available light situation, so I see some wedding photographer used them.Some of events photographer also love to use this for similar reason, and it seemed to work well with capturing child etc.However, I only see limited satisfied amateur user of this lens... while I am teaching photography lesson.It is may be because it makes very little economic sense for amateur user who are shooting landscape or family portrait.This 35mm lens focal length are well covered by many reputable L zoom lens including 16-35, 17-40, 24-105, 24-70 and other. All of them are excellent L lens, and will do wonder for the most of landscape or portrait project.  Zoom lens actually makes better economic argument in many occasion.As far as difference from L zoom lens concern, you won't notice much until you started to enlarge to considerable size.To be honest, not all of my 35mm focal length shoot on commercial assignment used this prime lens either... and that is even for the people who shoot staged subject in studio.  So, you can guess how often prime lens is used for journalistic type of photography.So, be sure you need this particular lens or you will be disappointed.Faster Aperture alone normally won't justify this lens.But if you know you need this lens, and your assignment or project demand this lens. Why wait.You really have to look at its performance when it is stop down to f2.8~f4 where many of money shot using this lens are created.For people who are not sure about taking plunge to the L prime lens, I strongly suggest to rent this lens for a week or more, so you will be sure you needed this lens for your particular style.Major Advantage are:1. F1.4 Aperture really help for low available light portrait situation, and ideal for indoor use.2. Very nice portrait lens for particular type of production.3. Work wonderfully on both full size sensor camera as well as 1.6x body.4. Build quality is excellent5. Very sharp, sharp enough to convince you that your L lens prime is worth the price.  Very useful for spread or any other large assignment.Major Disadvantage are:1.Cost as much as L zoom lens that does not sit well for many people.2.Prime lens is inherently limited as a workaround lens, so I wold go for L zoom lens if I have to choose lens on the travel.3.35mm is not going to work well with particular type of people as head portrait lens, so if you are going to buy your first L prime lens for portrait purpose, it is might be safer to buy 50/f1.2 or 85/f1.2", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "My favorite L Prime Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1250294400, "reviewTime": "08 15, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A3BXWT3QB1BI20", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "JAL \"JAL\"", "helpful": [97, 102], "reviewText": "I am going start by saying that I rate this lens as five stars _except_ for vignetting on full frame digital sensors at wide open apertures. I use this lens as my standard lens on a 5d. I find this angle of view to be perfect for general all around photography where I will \"step in\" to the subject to get the shot. This lens requires more interaction with the subject, but I think it results in more dynamic pictures. This lens is razor sharp, visibly sharper than my mainstay 24-70 f2.8 L zoom. On the 5d, I can shoot at f1.4 ISO 400 indoors without a flash which is pretty cool.Now the downside. All wide angles at wide open aperture have light falloff and even this lens demonstrates this tendency. You may not even notice this on many shots, but under some conditions it is very obvious and this condition is more noticeable on digital than film. You can fix this using the distortion filter in PhotoshopCS. If you shoot at f4 or better, the light falloff is not noticeable even under the worse of conditions. The falloff is not visible when you use this lens on an APS digital sensor like the 20d where it has a \"normal\" angle of view.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Razor sharp and fast, but shows light falloff.", "unixReviewTime": 1138406400, "reviewTime": "01 28, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2NSMJVQY0RV9S", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "J. Howell", "helpful": [17, 18], "reviewText": "For news, event, and wedding photographers, this lens is a jewel.  It shines at capturing a very natural perspective with unique clarity and bokeh.  I own both the 50/1.2L and 24/1.4L II and have had the chance to use a friend's 35L for a couple weeks.  It really seems to shine at capturing groups of people in natural environments.  It has just enough of a wide angle perspective to feel natural while at the same time providing sufficient subject isolation through it's fast aperture.  The subject isolation of the 50/1.2 is much greater while that of the 24/1.4 is much less.It is generally a bit wide for single person portraits, but is excellent for two person portraits or smaller group shots.  This lens pairs very well with a fast 85mm lens.  The 35/85/135 L primes are referred to as the \"holy trinity\" in Canon circles due to the excellent spacing of focal lengths and the unique rendering characteristics of each lens.Technically this lens is about on par with the 24/1.4II maybe slightly better than the 50/1.2L.  All lenses are sharp near the center of the frame, but this lens seems to hold onto its sharpness towards the edges a little better than the other two at large apertures.  Stopped down they are all excellent across the frame.  The bokeh of this lens has a bit more character than the stronger, more uniform bokeh of 50mm and 85mm lenses.  Images from the 35L seems very atmospheric compared to longer, more isolating focal lengths.I have found focusing on my 5DII bodies to be fast, smooth, and very accurate.  The lens is generally built very well, but still sports the smooth plastic finish of older L lenses.  The updated finish of my 24/1.4 II is more substantial and feels far better in-hand.  I'm half expecting Canon to come out with a version II soon with a host of updates, including the newer textured finish.  The lens hood fits nicely and does its job - which is primarily to protect the front element since this lens flares very little.My #1 advice to people looking to purchase an L prime in this range is to buy for the focal length you want.  Having owned or used most all of the short L primes I can tell you confidently they are all the best lenses you can buy in their respective focal lengths.  The only real difference among them is the focal length.  The perspective, rendering, and general \"feel\" of the images from each of the L primes is going to be different and special.  Buy the lens which suits your style the best instead of which one is perceived to be \"sharper\".As it stands, this lens is a wedding and photojournalistic juggernaut and by far the best 35mm lens you can buy for Canon.  Some would even argue that it's also better than all of the Canon 50s, but that's another debate.  Even if Canon does replace this lens soon, it will still be a heck of a good lens at this price.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "One of Canon's best primes", "unixReviewTime": 1318464000, "reviewTime": "10 13, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A5KMMY627T3W", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "Kate Stokes", "helpful": [45, 51], "reviewText": "Some of you may know about the 35mm Leica lens that was dubbed the \"Bokeh King\" for the wonderfully pleasant quality of bokeh that it created. This lens very much reminds me of it. Achieving bokeh is done with many lenses. Achieving that special \"wow\" bokeh is only achieved with an elite few. I believe this lens is a member of that elite few. It is professional looking and artistic looking at once. Easily controllable; automatically just the right amount and character in every shot. Just purely brilliant bokeh. I also own the 135mm f/2L which also receives high praise for its bokeh but in my opinion it is not as good as this lens. More bokeh doesn't necessarily mean best bokeh. It is the quality of the bokeh. This lens truly possesses that special quality. Alright, enough about the bokeh.Sharpness? Of course it is razor sharp. It better be for this price. I just expected that. If your's isn't then you need to return it for another one.Low-light performance? The best I have experienced from any Canon lens, and I have owned several professional and/or low-light Canon lenses.I sold my awesome 24-70mm lens to get this lens and I took a leap of faith in doing so. It looks as if I made a good decision. I do so because the 24-70 is too heavy and unwieldy and the f/2.8 of the lens is not good for indoors without a flash. Plus, 35mm was the focal length I was using most. Again I am very happy I did so. This lens was everything I hoped it would be and more. I don't see it coming off the 5D for a long while.This is one of the best kept secrets in Canon \"L\" lenses. I can't understand why this lens gets so little attention. I guess it is because everyone favors the convenience of Zoom lenses. This is bar none the best Canon lens I have ever owned. I can't wait for it's first wedding which is in a few weeks.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Canon \"Bokeh King\"", "unixReviewTime": 1200441600, "reviewTime": "01 16, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A39GR8EBKEPMI4", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "Keith OH/MI", "helpful": [21, 23], "reviewText": "I just bought this lens 2 months ago because I wanted to use it to take pictures of my newborn son and 2 year old daughter.  Prior to this, my 28-135 lens lived on my camera and was most often used to take pictures of my daughter in the house.  I like to take pictures without the flash when ever possible, so I found that I was most often using it zoomed all of the way and I was always having to take a bunch of pictures just hoping that I could catch 1 or 2 when she was not moving so they would not be blurry.  I was initially looking for a faster zoom lens but since I was taking so many pictures zoomed out, I decided to give a fast prime lens a try.  So I decided to buy the 35 f1.4 in hopes of getting better pictures of my kids.  I have not been disappointed.  This 35mm 1.4 lens is so fast that in good light it will completely stop their movement and it will take nice pictures in low light and still autofocus with no problems.  I am just an amateur and still have a lot to learn about photograpy but this lens has turned out some outstanding pictures already that I never saw with my mid level lenses that I initially bought with my camera.  This lens has made me such a fan of fast prime lenses that I just orderd the 135 f2.  Now I wish that I would have just bought this lens from the start instead of the zooms that will probably just sit in my camera bag until I decide to sell them.Due to all of the negative comments on lens packaging from Amazon, I decided to buy it through Adorama.  I paid about $20 extra at the time to do this but the lens came packed well.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Amazing Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1247270400, "reviewTime": "07 11, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A236417YI9EJ0W", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "K. Tran", "helpful": [37, 41], "reviewText": "The 35mm f/1.4L lens has slight back focus at the beginning so I sent it to Canon Factory Service for focus calibration.  After that, the lens is just perfect!  Sharpness, saturation, contrast are brilliant and in line with other Canon L-class prime lens.  Even at f/1.4, image quality is far better than the 16-35mm at f/2.8.  At f/2.8, image quality is way better than the 16-35mm at f/2.8.  This lens is thus one of the legendary lens from Canon, besides the 85mm f/1.2L and 135mm f/2L.  Even though I alredy have the 16-35mm f/2.8L, I'm very happy to purchase the 35mm f/1.4L.Highly recommended lens, espcially for 1.6X crop body (such as 20D, 30D, 350D, 400D).:)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Canon 35mm f/1.4L", "unixReviewTime": 1163030400, "reviewTime": "11 9, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "ASHLP8WUNKHIQ", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "K. Urquhart", "helpful": [13, 22], "reviewText": "While this lens will allow you to shoot in very low light, the resulting images will be very soft.  It sharpens up nicely by f/4, but there are several zoom lenses (e.g. 24-105mm f/4L) that can match it at that aperture.  While quick, the auto focus is not very accurate.  I spent a lot of time dialing in the AF micro-adjustment on my camera (7D), and while I was able to improve the average case, the variance was just too large to yield an acceptable \"keeper\" rate.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "too soft wide open; inconsistent autofocus", "unixReviewTime": 1298246400, "reviewTime": "02 21, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A3582YZ05M9NU5", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "Laplace Transform \"Laplace Transform\"", "helpful": [32, 39], "reviewText": "Awesome lens, 'nuff said.  You'll know when you're ready for it, and when you are, just buy the damn thing and stop thinking about it.***UPDATE***Okay, so people didn't like my review above.  I got a 1/3 helpful.  I guess I need to include more?Umm, this lens is amazing.  It's stellar.  It has absolutely no negatives.The sharpness is outstanding, especially from f/4.0 and up.  f/8 is superb, especially if you turn off in-camera sharpening and you know what you're doing in post processing.Colors and saturation are some of the best you can get from Canon.  Definitely the best in the lower focal lengths, I think the 35 produces better colors than the 14mm, 24mm, 50mm 1.4/1.8 or 85mm 1.2/1.4.  The 135 is a rival, and the 50 1.2 might be just as good, haven't tried it.  The only lenses that I think compare are the 300 2.8 and the new 200 2.0.  Maybe the old 200 1.8 but good luck finding one.Vignetting, well, if you ask me on a full frame sensor that's a feature for a lens like this.  It's another creative tool for the photographer.  Don't like it?  Open up.  Want more?  Stop down.  On a crop body (especially 1.6x) it's almost non-existant but you can still get a little past f/14.Great build quality.  Solid contruction that withstands the rigors of full-contact wedding photography and various photojournalism assignments, including war zones, the desert, the rain forest, and cold regions.Fast focus for such a large aperture lens.  Great manual focus ring too.Bright in the viewfinder, man this this collects light.Balanced, it feels great on a 5D, 5D II, 1D pro body, or even on a 40D/Rebel prosumer body.  Just long enough to get a good support, short enough to keep the weight centered and balanced.Everything is internal, so you can use any filter you desire.No IS.. thankfully Canon hasn't given in to the IS craze and put IS on this lens yet.  It's 35mm, you don't need IS.If you aren't using a decent quality body, or an older camera, you're going to have problems.  The lens will out-perform your camera in many ways.  This isn't a bad thing, but know that you can't just drop a Ferrari engine into a Daewoo and expect great things.What else can I say?  You know when you're ready for a fast, accurate, top quality prime of this nature.  You've probably had the nifty fifty 1.8 for a while, maybe you spent some money for the 50 1.4, and you'd like an L series prime.  If you're into the normal field of view, this is a classic performer.  In my opinion it's the ultimate walk-around lens for a pure photographer.  Amazing for city street photography, rivals any Leica 5cm.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Awesome.", "unixReviewTime": 1259539200, "reviewTime": "11 30, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A1BGIAZFVG1XQR", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "Mahul Chakraborty", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "If you are considering this lens for purchase, please read some reviews, check the MTF chart, and then borrow the lens from a rental shop for a trial because pictures taken with this lens will give you a better idea of why everyone, or almost everyone, sings praises for this lens. This lens is considered as one of the best lenses Canon makes and its optics and build quality justify the claim. After you have scrutinized the pictures taken with the rented lens, think if you are ready to spend $1500 on a lens that might outlive you.  Here are some pointers to help you make the decision.There are two principal reasons you should consider this lens for -1)Amazing sharpness: The images are razor sharp. It is so sharp at its best(lets say f/5.6) that even Photoshop cannot improve the sharpness.2)Photography without flash: Lets say you have a poorly lit or an almost dark subject which you want to shoot without flash. Do not worry! Put the aperture to f/1.4 and voila! You got yourself a photograph where the subject appears perfectly illuminated . If you cannot trust your eyes for focusing (oh wait! You cannot even see the subject clearly in the dark!) use \"Auto focus\". Auto focus of this lens is very smooth and the USM is terrific.In my view, there are two additional but less pressing reasons to own this lens -1)Focal length- I use a crop sensor, and the 35mm becomes equivalent to 56mm which is a very fitting focal length for general purpose photography. Ranging from close-up, portraits to landscape everything can be covered by it.2) The bokeh it produces is very smooth and buttery.I have not mentioned the contrast and the color saturation because the suffix \"L\" gives away that secret.Is there a reason for which you should think twice before purchasing it ?YES!1)This lens produces chromatic aberrations at higher apertures. In case of back-lit subjects it sometimes produces chromatic aberrations even at f/5.6. Initially I thought I got a bad copy but I later confirmed that chroma aberration is a problem with this lens.2)Some copies seem to backfocus. Among the two copies of this lens I tested, one back-focused at f/1.4. However, some Canon cameras do have an in-built focus adjustment mechanism (micro-adjustment). If you own one of them (7D, 5D and 1D), you can buy any copy of this lens and adjust the focus if needed.Having said all these, I think I will buy this lens again if I have to, because nothing else beats all of its pluses, whereas the close competitors share or even exceed its negatives. Please keep in mind that this lens or any other prime or zoom lens for that matter, is not perfect. It is extremely hard to design a great lens and best lenses are often custom-manufactured by lens designers, and are priced well over $1500.Let me know if you need any information and I will be happy to share my experience of this lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Almost a perfect prime", "unixReviewTime": 1331856000, "reviewTime": "03 16, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A1QNYLBG73QRNF", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "Neurasthenic \"neurasthenic\"", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "I expect many people buy this as an \"L\" equivalent to a 50mm lens on a camera with an APS-C sensor. However, I use it with a full frame digital camera or with 35mm film, and for me, this is one of Canon's essential primes. Together with their 135mm f2L, and a good 50mm lens, the 35mm f1.4L completes the kit. The angle is sometimes too wide for good coverage with a single flash, and I almost never use more elaborate lighting setups, so I am typically left using this lens in natural light. It is best in those cases where you can get relatively close to the subject (else the background becomes overwhelming). As with all L lenses, it feels solid and produces excellent results. The crispness of the image all the way to the corner of the frame allows me to compose an image however I like without worrying much about optical 'sweet spots' in the lens.I have also photographed urban settings with this lens -- Times Square at night; the ruins of the Renaissance ballroom at dusk. Such photos don't drive my photography but I take them sometimes for context or because an image strikes me, and this lens handles them beautifully.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "delightful, especially for outdoor photos", "unixReviewTime": 1254700800, "reviewTime": "10 5, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A1HTB488P5GRCP", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "Roy", "helpful": [103, 116], "reviewText": "It is as expensive as a 24-70L, and costs 4 times more than a 35/2. It is fixed length and \"only\" 2 stops faster. It is not noticably sharper at f4 and higher.But I find I fall in love with it. I used a 85/1.8 and 135/2L for portrait. I also have a 24-70L, 50/1.8II and a 18-55 kit lens. But I found that I need a wide and FAST lens to shoot my kid/baby. I prefer to shoot with natural indoor light. I read reviews and browsed pictures and decided that 35/1.4L is the one I need. Based on reviews and my experience with 50/1.8II, 35/2 is NOT usable untill you stop it to f4. That is too slow.I made the right decision. At f/1.4 it is soft, but at f2.0, picture is pretty sharp. And most importantly, it maintains very good and natural color saturation which you won't get from Photoshop, as well good contrast ratio. It is not very shart at f2.0, but color and contrast make pictures beautiful. Set ISO200 and 1/40th shutter speed, I can shoot without flash at f2.0. Wider angle also means you can shoot in about 4~5 feet away so you can have eye contact with your kids or babies. You won't worry they are not looking at you/lens. This is priceless to me.Originally I thought this would be a indoor lens as I have a 24-70L. But now I also find it is a very good outdoor portrait/landscape lens. It captures very good details and color for shadow area and takes very nice portrait pictures even with back light. After a trip with this lens, I decide to use 24-70L for indoor studio light shoot only (with flexible zoom/frame).It is not a great anti-flare performer, but still better than most other lenses. Bokeh is very good with no sign of distraction at all. It may not be as beautiful as a 135/2L but much better than I expected.It is expensive, but it is a prime L. I cannot say it worth more than a grand, but if you need a fast lens, with good color and saturation at wide open, wide angle and still with beautiful bokeh. It is the one for you. It also provides good shadow details with no sign of wash out. No need to say DOV control. If you have the money, I highly recommend this lens.Body used: Canon Rebel.Lenses used: 18-55mm, 24-70L, 50/1.8II, 85/1.8, 135/2L.Cons:Expensive. Cost as much as a 16-35L, a 24-70L or a 70-200/2.8L.Back focus for 0.5 inch at f/1.4 with Rebel/300D boday but I can live with it.Anti-flare is not the best.Pros:FAST with very usable f2.Very shallow DOV.Very beautiful bokeh.Very good color saturation and good contrast even at wide open.Good shadow detail with good color/contrast (good for back light).Beautiful L color.Fast focus speed as expected from a L lens with Ring USM.L build quality.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "L primes rule!", "unixReviewTime": 1180569600, "reviewTime": "05 31, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1K7XTHFVQPM6J", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "Warren L. McFerran", "helpful": [15, 18], "reviewText": "This lens is expensive, but well worth the price!I bought this lens through Amazon.com, and it arrived last Thursday. On Friday, I took it out for a brief test. I discovered that it is acceptably sharp wide open. Even at f/1.4, images are sharp. Sharpness increased as I stopped it down. By f/2.0, it was very sharp. Sharpness continued to increased as I stopped down. By f/8.0, it was unbelievably sharp! That is the \"sweet spot\" for the lens. As I stopped down farther, however, sharpness decreased. By f/22.0, image quality was terrible. In fact, image quality at f/1.4 was better than it was at f/16! Clearly, this lens was designed for low-light performance, with its maximum performance at f/8.0.On Saturday, I took the lens out for a photo shoot, mounted on my Canon Rebel T1i camera. For my outdoor shots, I consistently used f/8 aperture, and the results were simply stunning. The sharpness of the images surpassed anything my other \"L\" lenses can produce. This lens is even sharper than my venerable 70-200 f/4.0L IS lens! And that is really saying something, because my telephone zoom lens is itself an incredibly sharp lens. What really surprised me, however, was the beautiful color saturation and contrast that the 35mm f/1.4 lens produced. Even without a polarizing filter, it delivered beautiful, rich, blue skies, handled unwanted glare/reflections with ease, and in general consistently produced professional quality images. I could easily print sharp, beautiful, poster-sized prints with the images this lens produced.Since the lens does not have IS (Image Stabilization), I tried to always keep shutter speed at or above 1/30 second. But there was one occasion, in a very dimly lit interior scene, where I was forced to shoot at 1/8 second. I was sure I would get a blurry picture. Much to my surprise, however, the image was acceptably sharp, even at 1/8 second!Bottom line: This is an expensive lens. But it delivers incredibly high quality, professional results, even when mounted on a Rebel body. Anyone who can afford this lens will be pleased with its performance. And when mounted on a cropped sensor camera, like the Rebel T1i, it becomes a 56mm lens - almost a normal angel of view! That makes this the ideal prime lens for cropped sensor cameras!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Top Quality, Professional-Grade Lens!", "unixReviewTime": 1270425600, "reviewTime": "04 5, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A2CFS07VFQU65Q", "asin": "B00009R6WY", "reviewerName": "Y. L. Machinsky \"Average YLM\"", "helpful": [20, 24], "reviewText": "This EF 35mm f/1.4 L USM has one remarkable feature that is not widely reviewed.Recently I had an opportunity to compare (thanks to Glazer's Camera in Seattle) this lens to other prime from Canon EF 50mm f/1.4 USM which is roughly thousand dollars cheaper than 35mm L lens.Canon's 50mm f/1.4 is a 20+ year's old proven technology in new EF package.  Let us set aside the difference of 35mm vs. 50mm.Is there a reason to spend around $1,400 for EF 35mm f/1.4L USM?You can have \"non L\" 35mm lens or EF 50mm f/1.4 USM for $400.The short answer is.  I do not have 50mm lens anymore.The reasons are:1. 50mm prime was even sharper in a pristine way. It has fewer elements in the path. But for some reason sharpness was not consistent with 20d and 5d. Maybe L lens has better autofocus motor. L lens is heavy as well, so \"Ease of use\" attribute has four stars.2. The main reason I do not have 50mm lens and kept EF 35mm f/1.4 L USM is;There is something about consistency in picture quality (colors, contrast) when working withEF 35mm f/1.4 L USM lens. And this is not about sharpness alone. This is more of a tool to get the job done. Here are some problems with EF 50mm f/1.4 USM.This lens has somewhat shallow light latitude. When the light is on the low side, colors of the faces tend to be more reddish. (Too much work on Photoshop to fix 200+ pictures).When there was too much light, my highlights were blown really fast. With film that was not a problem; film could handle light overloads better, but digital sensors have less tolerance to those extremes (yes there are camera setting to chose).To my surprise EF 35mm f/1.4 L USM did not have that problem. Colors of the faces were consistent throughout several stops. I am talking about using the same camera body and all settings auto. Go figure.Addition as of January 10, 2013. I do not have that lens anymore. After owning several different systems from Canon, Nikon and now Sony (Zeiss), I still remember those creamy and yet sharp results. Now I am with Sony (Zeiss) magic.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "EF 35mm f/1.4L USM  vs.  EF 50mm f/1.4 USM", "unixReviewTime": 1261008000, "reviewTime": "12 17, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A18U05IGMK1FVV", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "Alvin English", "helpful": [32, 50], "reviewText": "I have upgraded my rating after reevaluating the performance of this lens and how I intended to use it.  This is a very special lens and cheap for what it does.  I am giving it five stars because it is a tremendous value.  I consider it a very good buy for the price.I recently purchased the Canon 20D camera with the Canon EF-S 18-55mm f3.5-5.6II as the kit lens. Also, purchased the Canon EF 50mm f1.4 USM and Canon EF 24-70mm f2.8L USM lenses. I am an amateur photographer, but this is my first time using a digital camera.I purchased it primarily to use for available light photos on my new digital camera.Rather then list PROS and CONS, I will list the general characteristics of this lens.  Then you decide if it is appropriate for your intended purpose.CHARACTERISTICS:1. The lens has a very shallow depth of field at the larger apertures giving it this dream like Bokeh (soft background blur).2. The medium and smaller apertures are razor sharp and very clear.3. The lens has lots of contrast.4. The lens gathers a lot of light to be so small.This lens was built for 35mm cameras.  If you use it on a smaller format, as many digital cameras are these days, know what you are getting into.  This is a 50mm lens when used on a 35mm camera, but it is equivalent to a 80mm lens when used on most digital SLR cameras.  Looking at size alone, it would seem to be a good portrait lens on a digital camera, but the lens characteristics indicate it would be better used for other purposes.  I don't understand how it gathers so much light ... it is unusual.  This is an excellent lens, but make sure it is a good match for the job at hand.P.S.If you are wondering about the other lenses I purchased. I love the EF 24-70mm f2.8L. Yes, it is expensive, but it focuses well in low-light situations and the colors are great. The photos take on a third dimension with this lens.What about the EF-S 18-55mm f3.5-5.6II kit lens? Unlike some elitist, I believe this kit lens is very useable for the average consumer. The lens does not have the outstanding color rendition or extra dimension of the L-series lens, but still a very good lens and light weight. It is better then any of my old 35mm lenses.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "A Very Special Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1142121600, "reviewTime": "03 12, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1FHUYGO3OWWRF", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "A photographer", "helpful": [51, 55], "reviewText": "Over 30 years ago, when I bought my first 35mm SLR, it came with a 50mm lens.  It was considered the \"normal\" lens for 35mm at the time.  I must admit, as soon as I could afford it, I started buying accessory lenses.  First a 35mm, then an 85mm, then a 24mm, so it went.  I didn't use a 50mm very much.  I didn't want my photos to look normal so why would I want to use a normal lens?Twenty-odd years later, I bought a used Leica M6 with a 50mm Summicron lens.  Since I couldn't afford another lens for some time after that, I used the 50mm for everything.  This opened my eyes to the possibilities of a normal lens.  No longer did I depend on a lens to give my photos a \"look\", I was depending on myself to make them interesting.  I saw things that I overlooked before and began to make photographs of them.  Light and composition took on a new meaning.  The character of subject matter became the overriding concern--not the angle of view.  It was something of an epiphany for me after so many years.Cameras today come with kit zoom lenses.  Many of them are not very good, but they help to sell the cameras.  I have nothing against zooms but I mostly use primes these days.  Back when I bought the Leica, I also used Canons and I already owned several Canon EF lenses, including primes and zooms and L-series lenses in both prime and zoom formats.  I did not own a 50mm.  So I bought the cheap little f/1.8 II lenses.  While it performed well optically, I really was not comfortable using it.  It lacked a distance scale and the manual focus ring was a royal pain.  I can appreciate lightweight equipment but the 50/1.8 II lens just plain felt like a toy.  Since I was using the 50mm focal length more and more, I decided to spring for the f/1.4 version.  I'm very glad I did.The lens is a joy to use.  It is well built and well designed.  The autofocus seems a little slow compared to some of my other Ultrasonic lenses but it's still extremely fast.  The f/1.4 aperture is truly awe-inspiring if you're used to using f/3.5 kit zooms.  The out-of-focus portions of the picture (the bokeh) is creamy smooth and the in-focus areas are very sharp.  The lens is already sharp at f/1.4 but it picks up even more sharpness and a considerable amount of contrast by stopping down a bit.  I don't test lenses by shooting test targets.  I shoot real pictures of the various subjects that interest me.  In that type of real world testing, this lens gets top grades.Although the 50mm may not be the correct normal lens for a reduced size sensor DSLR, for full-frame DSLR and 35mm film users, I recommend it highly.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The lens you should be using on your film or full-frame DSLR", "unixReviewTime": 1177632000, "reviewTime": "04 27, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AZWWDK03E3M8S", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "B. B. \"BB\"", "helpful": [11, 17], "reviewText": "I bought this to take portraits and also in low light situations indoors.  I use XTi.Initially, I was somewhat disappointed with the indoor shots because of the softness of the shots at low f stops (less than 4 perhaps), as well as the orange hue. I tried different settings but I wasn't entirely happy with the performance of the lens. Still, it was far, far better than the original lens that came with the camera (18-55mm). Canon should stop selling that lens, in my opinion, but I digress.The day time shots (indoors and outdoors) came out very well with crystal clear  focus with great bokeh. So, I don't think there's anything wrong mechanically with the lens.  I am happier with the lens as I discovered that at least with my XTi, the indoor, low light shots come out really well at the factory preset mode (turn the dial to \"no flash\" mode). I am able to take shots with truer colors (no more orange hue) that are sharper than my own settings with this simple turn of the knob.  Almost too easy, but I like the results.  (Update: I've since figured out how to use my camera with apperture (Av) and shutter (Tv) settings which has solved the color problem.  I am also finding out that the indoor shots are coming out with great clarity. I also bought an L lens 17-40mm recently, but I find myself using this lens over the L one for indoor shots w/o flash.)I originally gave this 4 stars thinking that it was a bit pricey, but after using it for several months in various lighting situations, I am very, very pleased with the shots, and I think this is a 5 star lens.I am happy with this lens. It's a very good lens. I am pleased with the photos that I am taking. I am also enjoying taking shots without disturbing the people since I can take shots in low light indoor situations without the flash.(Update: I find the narrow field of focus on this lens and the great bokeh to be an execellent way to take close ups of people and objects.  The photos have depth and are very pleasing. I am very happy with this lens and can't imagine not having this lens both indoors and outdoors.  F1.4 is a must.  I recently spoke with a friend who \"saved\" money by getting the F1.8 but regrets the decision. We both agree that F1.2L might be nice if one has the money, but at $300 to $350 level, the F1.4 produces great shots with clear focus and a very nice bokeh. It's worth the price tag and you won't be disappointed.)", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "It's worth the $300 price tag.", "unixReviewTime": 1171324800, "reviewTime": "02 13, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "ASIRHRCW8LSC7", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "C. Dsa", "helpful": [35, 64], "reviewText": "I have been using this lens for about a month. Here is what I like about it.1.  The USM gives me better auto-focus performance.  Worth the price diff between the f1.8?  ... I'm guessing not, but on the other hand, candids of two active boys might be helped by a speedier auto-focus.2. The f/1.4 gives me a noticable margin for low light situations3. The f/1.4 version is slightly better built and does produce better bokeh than the cheaper f/1.8 models.Here is what I dont like1. I have noticed that the lens is very soft on the wide end between 1.4 and 1.8. There is some kind of \"flaring\" around the bright spots.2. I have taken identical photos with my L17-40 f4 and dont see this. Although the 50/1.4 is a lot faster than my L lens.. I am sending this lens back either to Canon for calibration or to Amazon..3. The ring of the 50/1.4 appears to be loose. I dont know if this is supposed to be this way.. however for an expensive lens Canon should construct this lens like a tank. but no.. it appears to be cheap.4. The 50mm/1.8 is only about $70 so it's hard to beat. I find the picture quality is around the the same as my 50/1.4.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Is Canon Quality Going Down", "unixReviewTime": 1149206400, "reviewTime": "06 2, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2LCE1D0TW2XY0", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "D. Alexander", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "Title says it all. Brilliant when the focus hits. Too often, even on a recent body, it doesn't.I've owned two of these lenses, one from the late 1990s and one from 2011. Optically, there's little to complain about. Both copies are sharp in the center from f/1.4. From f/1.4 to f/1.8, there's a fair bit of halation, a gauzy low-contrast glow around objects. This improves portraits, but won't win awards in instrumented testing. From f/2.8 onward, it's very near the best performance available from any lens. Maximum performance is f/5.6 with crop bodies and f/8 with full-frame. Flare isn't much of a bother. Nor is field curvature, where the plane of focus that runs perpendicular to the lens bends at the edges. I've never bothered with, nor felt the need for, the lens hood for this lens. Even lens caps are superfluous with such a recessed front element.A point of technique: depth of field is very shallow at f/2 and below. Focus and recompose, where you focus with the center point and then shift your view before you take the picture, will ensure slightly out-of-focus pictures. You need to select the correct focus point for your composition. The 10D-50D, 7D, and 5D series all have a joystick to make this easier, though the lack of outer cross points on the 5D and 5D II may negate the benefit.The reason I'm giving this lens three stars is the focusing system. It's ostensibly USM, but by way of some hack method that's physically brittle, middling to slow in any light, often inaccurate, and more often inconsistent. It's a world apart from the 85/1.8 and 100/2 of the same vintage. By some great stroke of fortune, and after three rounds with Canon Jamesburg and Canon Irvine, I finally managed to make my first 50/1.4 match my 40D. It was my go-to portrait lens for years. It was accurate, fairly consistent, and not that fast. My hit-rate at f/1.4 and f/1.6 was about 75%. With a 7D, for whatever reason, it was less consistent. The second one, despite a round with Canon Irvine, wasn't ever consistent or accurate on my 50D. Micro focus-adjustment was of no help. My hit-rate was closer to 40%.An update: Roger Cicala at Lensrentals recently tested multiple copies of this lens with a still target and center-point AF on a 5D II. AF missed by a measurable amount 40% of the time and 20% by a noticeable amount.The problem for crop users is that there isn't a comparable portrait lens in this focal length. The 50/1.2 is expensive. The 50/1.8 has less accuracy and middling build quality. Sigma's 50/1.4 misfocuses outside of the 5-15 foot range. If I can't trust a lens, the other attributes pale in importance. For lack of alternatives, it's worth rolling the dice with this 50/1.4, but be prepared to take a lot of refocused safety shots below f/2. My response was to move to full-frame bodies and the 85/100 USM. The 85/1.8 is compelling on a crop body if you're partial to the extra working distance.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Fine optics, weak focusing system", "unixReviewTime": 1340668800, "reviewTime": "06 26, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "AJSGH34DBQGXA", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "D. Ohnemus", "helpful": [17, 20], "reviewText": "Probably the best dollar value you can get in a medium telephoto lens. I was torn between it and the 85mm 1.8 for a portrait lens. Given the 1.6 focal length multiplyer I have on my current digital camera I went with this lens.Great lens, wonderful for portraits and people shots in general.  Good low light performance.  I think the extra money is worth it as compared to the 50mm 1.8  Of course each person has to decide for themselves, with the wide range of zoom lenses available that give very good performance it can be hard to justify a single fixed focal length lens.  I wanted it for portraits and am very very pleased with this glass. I do and will be using it a lot so it makes the decision easier for me.It is a bit soft at 1.4 and that is by design. It becomes sharper rapidly as you close down the aperture, by 2.0 it is sharp by 4.0 it is unreal. That is the only way to describe it, unreal in it's clarity.At 1.4 you can capture all those low light art shots you never could before.  Don't need much of a light bulb to give you a good exposure with this lens wide open.Enough, don't want to ramble. Great lens,  would be a bargin at a much higher price (don't read that part Canon).", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Glass", "unixReviewTime": 1164326400, "reviewTime": "11 24, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AK8CYEIGXK6R3", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "Edmond Hatfield \"ReelTime\"", "helpful": [49, 61], "reviewText": "The lens has totally crapped out after 50 or so photos and 14 months on the shelf with some other lenses.No AF and will not adjust the aperture, So basically it is dead and send it in for $150 repair with the threat of it doing it again or just eat it. I think I will eat it. I am so mad at Canon.Bewareupdate:I did send it in and canon fixed it for the flat rate. Has worked flawless since. It is the sharpest lens I have.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Beware, Buy at your own risk", "unixReviewTime": 1228176000, "reviewTime": "12 2, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A3N0FGU0U1KHUD", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "G. Clark \"hogwallow\"", "helpful": [141, 152], "reviewText": "When I worked as a photojournalist many years ago, 50mm was the \"standard\" lens in that it came closest to a real world perspective, especially for street photography. That is no longer always true because of the field-of-view crop of many cameras. Canon's popular digital Rebel and its successors, for example, have a 1.6X view that turns a 50mm lens into an 80mm lens. The 1D MARK II has a 1.3X view that makes it a 65mm lens.So, if you're looking for a standard lens today, 35mm probably is closer to the mark on those cameras. And Canon has a couple of options there - a 35 f/1.4 that is great and expensive and a 35 f/2 that is a good value at about $250.If you're still looking for a 50mm, however, there now are four options from Canon: 50/1.2, 50/1.4, 50/1.8 and 50/2.5. Here are the pros and cons of each:50/1.2 is the newest, fastest and the most expensive at about $1,600. It is an \"L\" lens, which means it is more durably constructed than any of the others. The image quality is a cut above all of the others, especially at wider apertures. If money is no object, you'll probably want this one. But most of the rest of us have to ask the question whether it's 5X better than the 1.4.50/1.4 is maligned by some for the softness of its images at f/1.4, but for me its a good, compact, low-light lens at a terrific price ($325). And the lens gets sharp quickly as you stop it down. It's sharp at f/2 and very sharp by f/2.8 with good contrast and colors.50/1.8 is a step down from the 1.4 in speed, image quality, build quality and the smoothness and noise of its autofocus. But it is a big step up in value - a decent lens for about $80. If you're just getting into digital photography, this is a great lens to learn on until you get a better feel for the lenses that you want/need.50/2.5 - this is a macro lens, although you can use it for general photography, too. I wouldn't recommend it. If you're doing macro photography, spend a little more for the 100/2.8, which is a sharper lens that gives you more subject distance. If you're looking for a standard lens, you'll appreciate the wider aperture of the 1.4.All that said, of the 50mm Canon lenses, I think the 50/1.4 still offers the best mix of image quality and value.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Choosing a \"standard\" lens", "unixReviewTime": 1162080000, "reviewTime": "10 29, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A19MUBPFBF4TQU", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "Gil De Sousa, LensTests-com", "helpful": [10, 11], "reviewText": "Please don't take the Amazon star rating too serious - every lens has its pros and cons that I wouldn't want to squeeze into a single one-dimensional figure...A quick note about me: I have been into SLR cameras and lenses for more than 20 years - as a hobby in the beginning and professionally later. Maybe because of my technical background I started testing my own lenses quite a while ago. I have a (no longer so) little test lab of my own where I do 6 different image quality tests (after taking a lens out for a while).The EF 50mm f/1.4 USM is Canon's medium-budget 50 mm prime lens that combines good image quality with a compact and lightweight form factor. It has a precise USM motor that allows manual override during autofocus operation but it's an older generation model that's a little slower and noisier than modern USM motors. The lens is solidly built but of the outer parts only the lens mount is made of metal. The very low f-stops available (good maximum aperture) make this lens ideal for available light photography and portraits. Due to its high resolution at higher f-stops it's also suitable for landscapes (not so much on APS-C cameras where the effective focal length is 80 mm). Even wide open the EF 50mm f/1.4 USM has an impressive resolution but color fringes (\"chromatic abberrations\") both in focused (\"transverse CA\") and in blurred (\"axial CA\") parts of the images are a problem with this lens. Distortion is also an issue if the lens is used with a full frame camera. While corner shadow (\"vignetting\") is present it does fade with higher f-stops (narrower apertures) and there is no curvature of the focal plane (\"field curvature\"). The aperture shape is circular and creates even-looking bokeh.The EF 50mm f/1.4 USM costs more than three times as much as theEF 50mm f/1.8 IIbut (unlike the high-end offeringEF 50mm f/1.2L USM) is still affordable for most. The surcharge is paid for a better autofocus motor, higher built quality, a properly sized focus ring and of course a better maximum aperture of f/1.4 rather than f/1.8. I would have hoped that the image quality were also a step upwards but it's very similar to theEF 50mm f/1.8 II(which is probably good enough anyway). In real-life applications however the EF 50mm f/1.4 USM will likely deliver better images just for its superior focusing operation. If you are on a tight budget you'll be more than happy with the lower-cost offering but if you can easily afford it the EF 50mm f/1.4 USM will be a nicer lens to use.A much more detailed review of this lens together with all test shots, sample images and technical data is available on my website LensTests_com.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "The autofocus makes the difference", "unixReviewTime": 1337126400, "reviewTime": "05 16, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A2CF5XQ94ECGMU", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "jamescroak", "helpful": [12, 15], "reviewText": "I'm using this on a Canon 1Ds and find it to be perfect, as noted elsewhere when used around F4 it is the sharpness standard by which other lenses are to be measured, a perfect piece of glass, the best I've seen.  And stopped down to F1.4 it allows a focal depth of a few inches for singling out a subject within a field.  Great stuff!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Perfect glass", "unixReviewTime": 1105574400, "reviewTime": "01 13, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2Z2MUP8JRJXEU", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "Jay Mittener", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "The Canon 50mm 1.8 was the first prime lens I ever owned, and I think it spoiled me a little bit. Not in it's build quality, obviously as I think it's made out of the same plastic cracker jacks use, but in it's value for money. I still, to this day, with a bag full of L series glass, call the 1.8 the best buy lens you can get. Hands down.So when money started to come in a little more, I looked at an upgrade from my little 1.8. Because spending more means better right? 1.4 or even 1.2 are better! Well, I'm here to tell you no. The 1.2 is an amazing piece of glass at an amazingly high price. If you can afford the 1.2, buy it.. buy it several times so you can have a family of 1.2 lenses.. it's that good. But the 1.4? I simply don't get it. At close to $400, it's 4 times the price of the glorious plastic nifty 50 (1. but as best as I can tell, isn't even twice as good. The extra depth is nice SOMETIMES, but it's auto focus is nowhere near that of the 1.2 so you'll have a hard time putting it to use without a tripod or exceptionally steady hands. Realistically, how often to you shoot at 1.4 anyway? I seldom go below 1.8. Sure, it has more blades than a 1.8, but outside of photographers, don't assume anyone is trying to count the edges on your bokeh.As ridiculous as it sounds, the upgrade from your awesome $100 50mm 1.8 is the $1600 50mm 1.2. The 1.4 has the right ingredients on paper, but in the real world it will simply frustrate your wallet to the tune of $349", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Not the Upgrade You Think ...", "unixReviewTime": 1370822400, "reviewTime": "06 10, 2013"}
{"reviewerID": "A2NSMJVQY0RV9S", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "J. Howell", "helpful": [18, 21], "reviewText": "50mm is a very versatile focal length.  For Canon mount you have a very wide array of options:$100 - Canon 50/1.8$370 - Canon 50/1.4$500 - Sigma 50/1.4$1500 - Canon 50/1.2 LWhile 50mm is a staple portrait lens, this particular 50mm occupies a unique place.  This is Canon's oldest 50mm lens still in production and to be honest, it's showing it's age a bit.  Compared to both the Sigma 50 and Canon's 50L, it's optical performance is notably inferior.  It also has a very fragile focusing system that will probably break at some point in it's lifetime (especially if it's handled roughly).  Mine broke about 6 years ago and at the time it was a $100 fix from Canon.  It's probably more now.Now, all of that said, for the price, this lens is still a solid choice.  For the extra $270 over the 50/1.8, you get 2/3 of a stop more light transmission, vastly better build quality, and substantially improved subject isolation capability.  So while expensive relative to the 50/1.8, the extra $270 is actually buying you a lot of additional benefit.When comparing against the Sigma 50/1.4 things get more murky.  The Sigma has clearly superior image quality (sharper, better bokeh) and equal build quality.  However the Sigma has fairly unreliable autofocusing performance.  You can trust the Canon to focus accurately - which is more than most can say with the Sigma.  If you can deal with the Sigma's quirks and have $500 to spend on a 50mm lens, then it's a better option than the Canon.The Canon 50mm F1.2 L is better than all of them, as it should be for the price.  One thing to remember about the prices of these lenses is that the law of diminishing returns sets in very rapidly. While the 50L is better in every way than the 50/1.4, it's not 4 times better and many would argue it's not worth the price.  For the casual 50mm user, the Canon 50/1.4 is a better bet.So at this particular price point, this is an oldie but goodie 50mm lens that's worth the money.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Canon 50/1.4 compared to other 50mm lenses", "unixReviewTime": 1320105600, "reviewTime": "11 1, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A1H4WLPFV59XMA", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "Jim Krupnik \"jkrupnik\"", "helpful": [54, 58], "reviewText": "The latest 50 f/1.4 EF lens is the best performing chunk of glass that any photographer can buy for anywhere near the price. Granted, the 50 1.8 lens is awesome for it's dirt cheap price, but it is outclassed by the f/1.4 in all respects.Others have already raved about the virtues of this cheap (not really) lens, so I'll just agree with with the strong points, and lay out the broad picture on an open table.First, the 50 f/1.8 is usually a fine lens. It is dirt cheap, has better quality control than anything built by Sigma, and is super light weight. That being said, it does have issues with lens to lens quality, it is \"only f/1.8\", has a plastic lens mount, and is pretty slow in AF.The 50 f/1.4, on the other hand, can darn near allow you to see in the dark through the viewfinder, can focus in total darkness with the right shoe mount flash, records tack sharp images at most all apertures, has great contrast, is light in weight, small in size, has a metal lens mount, and is pretty cheap to buy.It is NOT an L lens in construction, yet it offers L lens optical quality. It does have a USM, but it is the \"old style\" USM, and is not as fast as the modern ring type USM lenses. Still, it is very fast, it beats the speed of the throw away f/1.8 lens to death, and is pretty darn quiet. Also, despite the majority plastic build, and lack of distance data for E-TTL II flashes (the f/1.8 also lacks this feature) the f/1.4 lens does offer a very responsive full time manual focus ring that works like a charm for manual focus, or just touch up in difficult auto focus situations.This lens is all that, and everyone should own it as their first lens. Zoom lenses included in body/lens kits are just plain junk (sorry), but this lens will stay in your camera kit for decades, no matter what camera body is in your future.People who are using 1.6 crop factor cameras like the 20D, 30D, and Rebel line should bear in mind that the 50 f/1.4 lens is effectively an 80 mm f/1.4 lens when mounted on their cameras. That makes the 50 f/1.4 an awesome portrait lens, and the aperture and diaphragm design of the f/1.4 make it unbeatable for capturing shallow depth of field shots with pleasingly blurred backgrounds.As fine a lens as the 50 mm f/1.8 really is, it cannot begin to compare to the 50 mm f/1.4 lens in terms of functionality. Buy this lens today, and it will be with you until the end, no matter what Canon body you use in the future. If you use a 1.6 crop factor camera today, this lens will become a favorite, and the best 80 mm portrait lens you have ever owned.As always, use it with the factory lens hood at all times (only about twenty five bucks), and use a UV filter that is multi coated on both surfaces at all times. Anyone who suggests that you use a cheap filter is steering you down the wrong path. No matter what lens you buy, always use a UV filter that is built at least as well as your lens. Cheap filters, and filters that are not multi coated on both surfaces are just plain garbage. The shame of it is that even Canon offers garbage filters for cheap, and many people who spend hundreds of Dollars on a lens claim that \"If it's good enough for Canon, it's good enough for me\". Nonsense. A cheap filter is just that. A good lens with a cheap filter might impress, but a good lens with a great filter WILL impress. Don't fall into the cheap trap.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "In the real world, this IS an \"L\" lens.", "unixReviewTime": 1162512000, "reviewTime": "11 3, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3N3NSTEAB5S2K", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "J. Lofing", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "Well, when it works, it takes nice shots. The large aperture makes for some pretty good bokeh for the price. However, most copies will not accurately focus throughout a range of distances (for example, mine was spot on until the subject got about 6 feet away, then it was extremely inaccurate from there to infinity). The autofocus mechanism is also failure prone and if it happens out of warranty (it WILL happen) it costs about half the value of the lens to have it fixed. You can sort of protect against the AF failure by storing the lens with the hood attached, but my copy failed while using this method. I'd go with the cheaper f/1.8, or the slightly more expensive Sigma 50mm f/1.4 if I had to do it again. Simply not worth the trouble and I've gone through three copies of this thing. All were not acceptable.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Nice photos, but horrible build quality and failure prone", "unixReviewTime": 1323993600, "reviewTime": "12 16, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "AKT8TGIT6VVZ5", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "John Kwok", "helpful": [10, 15], "reviewText": "If you are someone interested in available light photography - that is without relying exclusively on flash for photographs - then this lens should be regarded as an essential optic to be owned not only by professional and serious amateur photographers who use Canon autofocus SLR equipment, but indeed by all Canon owners. Not only is this lens much better built than its slower f1.8 sibling (Hint: It has more metal construction in the lens barrel to ensure years of excellent performance under every imaginable condition possible.), but optically it is a much better performer. Canon has done a fine job in developing excellent lens designs for their more expensive lenses, and frankly, this lens is no exception. I have seen excellent reports from Popular Photography, Shutterbug and elsewhere confirming the fine optical qualities of this lens. Indeed, if I'm not mistaken, Popular Photography's lens test of 50mm normal lenses a few years ago showed that this lens was among the better performers. To put it quite simply, paying more for this lens than for its slower f1.8 sibling will be well worth the additional expense. If I owned Canon equipment, then this lens would be an important part of my lens kit.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Among the best 50mm lenses available", "unixReviewTime": 1120867200, "reviewTime": "07 9, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "ADQ62U16Y5Z9W", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "Josi Kim", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "I've decided to write this review after owning the lense for at least a year. My wife purchased this lense for me as a gift and for the first few months, I had no idea how to harness its true abilities. Here's what I've learned and contemplated:The legendary Nifty-Fifty... It has long been touted the best and \"normal\" focal length for portraiture. Typically, it is the first lens to purchase after buying a DSLR.So why pay 3 times the price for a 1.4 vs the other Nifty 1.8?In terms of light, you're getting roughly 2/3 more light and results in faster shooting.The depth of field becomes far more shallow than the 1.8.You get the amazing, dreamy bokeh effect that is unique to the 1.4.The AF USM micro motor is faster and much quieter. Not quite as fast as a full size USM, but very close.At f2.2 and higher, it is tack sharp, however, I would say that the 1.8 comes very close.It feels better and more significant. I dislike the fact that Canon decided to change the 1.8 mount to the fantastic plastic.It's still tons cheaper compared to the Canon 50mm 1.2L.Now some people have written issues with focusing. It could be very possible these users received a bad lens, but there are a number of other factors to think about while shooting with a bright 1.4 lens.As great as Canon's bodies are, there's a minor issue with this lens and I haven't quite figured out if it's my body (Canon 60D) or if it's a common isssue with bright lenses in general.With that said, I noticed anytime I tried to shoot anything beyond 8 feet away with the aperture wide open at 1.4, the results were blurry 95% of the time. This was even using the center focus and adjust method, which I rely on heavily. It still had a tendency to front focus. I tested this theory by locking the focus, then very slightly, manually adjusting the focus a tad further out. I was able to obtain a nice clear shot at 1.4. But chances are, because the depth of field is still somewhat shallow and shooting wide open can make everything look soft, you're not going to get that nice sharp image you would expect from a prime.Most professionals know that you shouldn't mess with shooting wide open at far distances with a normal focal length lens, cause at that point, you may as well switch to a telephoto lens. But like I mentioned above, it is possible to refocus by guessing. The downside is that no one can rely on a guessing game. As far as what you can see in the viewfinder almost always looks well focused with subjects beyond 8 feet. It is nearly impossible to tell when the subject is truly in focus. If you decide to use this method, you'll begin to learn how your camera reacts to different situations. But keep reading and you'll see there are much better ways of tackling the problem.The problem lies in a lot of crop-body shooters. A lot of times you have to scoot back quite a bit to fit everything in and sometimes forget to raise the aperture.Don't feel defeated because this lens isn't perfect at all situations. No lens is.So when you're shooting subjects 8 feet and further, try this instead:set the aperture between 2.2 to 3.5 to 5.6.That may sound confusing, but here are the scenarios:2.2 Just capturing an individual (or low light situations)3.5 Capturing a group of people (or being in well lit situations)5.6 Capturing some landscape (or in bright daylight situations)You can even push it up to f8 and beyond but I can't see much difference beyond 5.6 most of the times.You'll notice a vast improvement in clarity for all your picture taking regardless of the subjects distance.Don't make the mistake I made by shooting everything wide open, just because you can. The beauty of bright, prime lenses isn't just the fact that they can shoot wide open, but it's also that they're amazingly sharp with higher stops, while providing luscious bokeh.You might say, what's the point in getting a 1.4 if you're going to set it at 2.2 or higher?The real point of having a 1.4 is truly to unleash the artistic expressions as a photographer. Once you feel like you're ready to move up to another level of shooting beyond typical shots, this requires you to have patience and have a subject that is relatively near (in general I would say 8 feet or closer). Don't be afraid to get close! Always focus on a persons eyes and snap away. (I recommend you learn how to use the center focus and adjust method)If you can truly master the 1.4, stepping up to the 1.2 will be a much easier adoption and you'll embrace the reasons behind the price jump.I would avoid using a tripod if possible as shooting with primes can require you to move all over the place to find the perfect compositions.Last, but not least, there is one other trick to getting semi sharp images at 1.4 beyond 8 feet and that is shooting it in live mode. Because it no longer relies on the phase detection and more on a pixel to pixel basis, it's able to get a pretty good focus on whatever subject it's pointed to. The only downside obviously is that the focus takes a long, long, long time... Unless of course you've adopted the Canon 70D.Thanks for reading! I hope this helps.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I dream of bokeh", "unixReviewTime": 1383350400, "reviewTime": "11 2, 2013"}
{"reviewerID": "A1VVRA3P6G1TWH", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "Luving it", "helpful": [14, 16], "reviewText": "I agree with almost everything the other reviews have said, all good. Just one little thing, my brand new lens has a quite loose focus ring. You can feel there's a bit of \"free room\" between the ring and the lens. My Sigma 170-500 DG (not EX) has the exact same problem, giving MF a bit mroe work than it should. But my Canon 70-200L and Sigma 10-20 EX don't have any of it. MF rings on those two are rock solid. So this fact alone makes a little bit suspicious about this 50mm's longevity. Hope I am wrong. Or maybe my sample is the exception.P.S. Now it's 2009. Since then I have acquired quite a few Canon lenses. I'd say the focus ring on this 50 1.4 is far from the worst on a Canon Non-L lens. In fact the only non-L lenses that have a reasonably solid  focus ring are Canon 17-55 IS, which is priced as an L anyway,and the 100mm f/2.0. So now I now, lousy focus ring with no lens hood is the rule of the Canon game. Poor me :)Also, I did some semi serious testing on Sharpness and CA, this 50 f1.4 isn't as sharp as I thought it was in the beginning. In fact the Canon 35mm f2 and 100mm f2 are both better. My 50 f1.4 only gets great around f6+. At f4 it's just acceptable. But when it's sharp, it's border to border sharp, all the way.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Excellent Build Quality?", "unixReviewTime": 1144972800, "reviewTime": "04 14, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3KTTW7UVZ8WIA", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "Manish Laxmikant", "helpful": [63, 68], "reviewText": "Right before I got this lens I thought that the best lenses were ones that offered, say, 28-105mm or 70-300mm or some other kind of broad zooming. Why would you be stupid to get a fixed-focal-length lens when you could have a large range even cheaper?Well here's why. This lens. f/1.4. Yes, there's f/1.2 but it's $$$ expensive. This one is definitely worth its price. For the sharpness. The colors. The bokeh. The speed - both of focus and the fact that you can get a higher shutter speed when the aperture is wide open. A lens that helps me not use a flash is my friend.With the megapixels going these days, you can make up for the zoom by cropping. Or walk closer or further away. Granted, you're not going to get many shots which require a 17mm lens but what you can fit to this lens will be nearly perfect.This was the lens that rejuvenated my interest in photography. The kit lens (17-55mm) on the Rebels nearly killed it.Be sure to get a hood and a lens filter (high quality, a super multi-coated, no less). Besides reducing unwanted light from sharp angles, they will also gladly sacrifice themselves should you fall or bump your lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "If you ever wanted to get the broadest zoom range, here's the cure.", "unixReviewTime": 1164585600, "reviewTime": "11 27, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3EKNB6HM09LN8", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "Matt", "helpful": [10, 11], "reviewText": "Okay, let me start off by saying that although this lens is great, it is not perfect. I feel like the construction could be better. The focus ring wobbles somewhat, as does the end of the lens (to a small degree) when it is focused to infinity. Autofocus can also be somewhat unpredictable under certain situations. And finally, f/1.4 is really not that sharp. Pictures taken at f/1.4 may or may not be usable (depending on the situation). But they won't really impress. Of course, all of these problems could probably be improved upon by making this lens an L-series (and Canon does indeed now make a 50mm f/1.2L). But, as is the case with the new Canon 50mm f/1.2L, this would certainly increase the price by a factor of 3-4 (or more). And for many of us, putting up with a few hitches is well worth it when you consider the (relatively) low cost of this lens and its (very) positive attributes.So what is so great about this lens? First and foremost, it is sharper than some lenses costing MUCH more. Yes, f/1.4 is not very sharp. But this is alot to ask even for an L-series. Furthermore, even by the time you get to f/1.8, sharpness has improved literally by leaps and bounds. And once you get into the 2's (and above), things are INSANELY sharp - from edge to edge! Simply by tossing that piece of garbage 18-55mm EF-S kit lens and putting this one on, your DSLR will go from taking pictures that look maybe just a little better than a good point-and-shoot to professional looking. You will suddenly find yourself going back and reshooting all those pictures that suddenly look like garbage. You will also find yourself finding creative ways to use this lens for as many different pictures as you can (rather than using other, less sharp lenses that might have a more appropriate focal length). And you will even find other people telling you that you should become a professional photographer because your pictures are so good! It's really THAT good. There is a reason why even many pros prefer this lens over some more expensive lenses. And this is it.But sharpness is not everything. Contrast and color saturation will also rock your world. I have not yet tried a lens that is THIS good. Zooms? Forget it! L-series? Well, I have never really tried one on my camera. And even if they are better, let's not forget the price. I should also note that, although the 50mm f/1.8 mkII comes close to the 50mm f/1.4 in terms of sharpness, reviews have shown that it doesn't come close in terms of contrast or saturation. This lens is simply as good as it gets in this price range.It's just too bad that 50mm is not a more useful focal length on an APS-C camera (where it is equivalent to 80mm on a full frame camera). Yes, it finds good use on my camera. But if it was truly a 'standard' lens on my camera, I would probably seldom change lenses!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Simply fabulous!", "unixReviewTime": 1158278400, "reviewTime": "09 15, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A21M1SHXG8WAFS", "asin": "B00009XVCZ", "reviewerName": "Michael J. Foley", "helpful": [10, 15], "reviewText": "This 50 mm 1.4 lens is so superior to what shipped (the 18-55mm) with the Rebel XTi (which I just LOVE), that it makes the 55mm seem like a toy lens.  I'm very familiar with lenses from my 35mm days and this lens looks and feels just like a fine 35.  It has a narrow depth of field but that can be corrected with camera settings. We're not talking snap shot photos here.  This is probably being read by camera buffs who know just what I'm talking about.This is providing me with profession results.  A few years ago, who would have thought this possible from a digital camera? Technology....It is very fast and for most situations, it is the perfect lens.  The 1.2 might be better if you can see to spend the bucks for it.I'd suggest buying just the body of the new Rebel and than adding this lens, if it is right for your situation.  I just wish that I had done that.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "This is just superb!", "unixReviewTime": 1166400000, "reviewTime": "12 18, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AQ1WOABLPA3KF", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "A. Alawadi \"meshal\"", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "i prefer b&w over hoya, cause it cleans quickly and remain clean for months unlike hoya that i have.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "best uv filter i have used so far..", "unixReviewTime": 1193875200, "reviewTime": "11 1, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1N83T6XNXYRWI", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "A. Heline \"Al H.\"", "helpful": [42, 48], "reviewText": "Purchased the 58mm version of this to protect the lens on a Cannon S5 IS (I am of the old school of protecting lenses).  The construction is as solid as a rock and the filter element is crystal clear.  I went with the B&W because of the brass outer ring.  This filter will mate to an aluminum Lensmate adapter (highly recommended).  Aluminum to aluminum can seize.  Aluminum to plastic will bind (under certain conditions) but brass does not have that interactive problem under normal (non-maritime) conditions.  Therefore, this filter can buffer between the Lensmate adapter and anything I want to screw into the female threads of this filter.  Brass and B+W are a good thing (so Martha would say).", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "B+W UV-Haze 1X MRC filter", "unixReviewTime": 1198454400, "reviewTime": "12 24, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3RXG20IE7WDO0", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "Alaskan Photo Workshops & Tours \"Visit www.Ph...", "helpful": [139, 152], "reviewText": "If you have quality glass, like the Canon L series, then you need quality filters. the B+W are made from ground optical glass, not a piece of plain glass like as you see in the tiffen and hoyas filters (even the expensive ones are still cheap grade glass). Only B+W and Heliopan put the time and $$ into making filters that are designed to be used with your quality lenses and not distort and reduce the optical quality of them.  I have a Heliopan as well, and I prefer the B+W a little bit more as its a brass ring and not aluminum and thus does not bind up as easy, and thats important when you want to change filters quickly! If you use a cheap filter on a pro grade lens, you are wasting your money, on the lens and the filter as the filter just hurt your image quality, and thus you lowered the quality of your lens! In filters, like lenses, you get what you pay for!!!I shoot in all kinda of weather conditions, from sunny and warm, to windy and cold or snowy, and I have never had any major issues with any of my B+W filters acting up!  I prefer the MRC, but even their entry level one is ground glass, so you still get a great quality filter at that price point.You need a UV filter on all your lenses, as it helps to protect your front element, as I have seen many lenses saved when bumped or dropped by the UV filter.  If you are outdoors shooting or around kids or food at all, you have to have a UV filter no matter what!  The B+W does not degrade your optical quality from a quality pro-series lens, like a Canon L Series, where a lower grade window glass filter would, like all the Tiffen, Hoys, etc.  Even the Canon filters are not ground glass, and thus why I dont use them!  Just be aware if you are using good filters, you can't blame a bad image or blurry shot on the glass or filter then, you will have to own up to actually taking a bad picture every once and a while...  :)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "You should have one of these on all your quality lenses!!  All my Canon L glass has them!", "unixReviewTime": 1196121600, "reviewTime": "11 27, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "ANI4T7ND2RCNM", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "A. Stathas", "helpful": [22, 25], "reviewText": "I did some simple tests to determine just how much this filter degrades an image. Took shots with the filter on and with no filter on and compared results under extreme magnification. I was pleased to find that there was absolutely no visible difference that I could detect. Well done, B & W.What about Tiffen?Because Amazon usually includes a free Tiffen or Hoya filter with every lens, I usually get it for one reason only... to protect my lens until my B+W filter arrives. Once the B+W arrives, I throw away the Tiffen. Please don't be an idiot that spends $500-$1,000 on a new lens who then puts a $6 filter on the front. There IS a difference and it is clearly visible.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "It's invisible - which is why you want it.", "unixReviewTime": 1230076800, "reviewTime": "12 24, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A2S997VL071SJQ", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "Binh Pham \"oracle11g\"", "helpful": [18, 27], "reviewText": "Good quality filter, however, it does impart a slight loss in the quality of the pictures, ie. a slight loss of saturation and less contrast.  Also, if you use this with zoom lens and taking pictures with distant scenes with haze, dont expect miracles since I did not see any differences in haze reduction!  I'm thinking that may be I dont have to more $$$ than I did on this filter, may be a Hoya UV filter should suffice if I just want to protect your lens...I'll get the Hoya UV filter next time and see if it provides the less of a picture quality loss. I was a little disappointed with this filter since there was some very positive reviews on this filter. FYI, I'm using this filter for my 70-200 F2.8L IS USM and 24-105mm F4L IS USM lens. Since these are expensive lenses, that is why I spent more money on this filter, however, from what I read, Hoya also makes excellent high quality filters and less expensive.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "B+W UV Haze Filter #10", "unixReviewTime": 1231632000, "reviewTime": "01 11, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A38KK0SZYEH5UD", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "Busy Executive", "helpful": [11, 12], "reviewText": "I'm lucky enough to own some of the best lenses made, and when it comes to protecting them, B&W; is my first choice. In addition to UV filters, I also use B&W; for their polarizers and ND filters.The filter is obviously high quality, threading easily and securely onto my lenses with no binding or looseness whatsoever...this tends to be my number one complaint with other brands - they either don't go on smoothly, don't stay on securely, or are difficult to remove (especially in cold weather). Not so with the B&W.;From an optical perspective, although I don't have any exacting way to measure it, I certainly don't see any degradation in image quality from use of this filter on my lenses. Colors and contrast seem identical with and without. One thing I do with filters is to inspect them by looking at reflections at a steep angle. If you look at the reflection of a bright object with lots of straight lines off the filter, some brands reveal a bit of rippling or color difference, and sometimes it's different with the filter mounted on a lens. I've never seen this with any B&W; product.For ultra-wide angle lenses, B&W; makes a line of thinner filters that won't cause vignetting, however I only use them when absolutely necessary as I find it difficult to attach lens caps or hoods to the thinner mounts.If you have thousands of dollars invested in your lenses, the cost of a high quality filter seems like a no-brainer.Highly recommended.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Top quality lens protection", "unixReviewTime": 1262390400, "reviewTime": "01 2, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A27H1MTZ6IWTJE", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "d80shooter", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "Much better construction than the Hoya (other than Pro 1) and Tiffen filters I've owned.  Image quality seems identical with or without the filter.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Very high quality", "unixReviewTime": 1200268800, "reviewTime": "01 14, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A1GL2XCSI1MP31", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "ddlj81", "helpful": [20, 24], "reviewText": "I bought this recently and am using it on my ef 28-135mm lens on my Canon 40d. Fits perfectly and no more worries for my lens. Just to clarify, this is exactly the \"MRC\" version. just that amazon has a slightly different title as multi coated 2c. I never take out the filter off my camera except when I am using it with flash indoors. The lens flare is noticable when used with flash indoors since there is too much bright light reflection from the walls closeby. (But this is unavoidable with any filter that is out there). B+W UV MRC is regarded as the best by all and I certainly agree with it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent - and this is the MRC version", "unixReviewTime": 1196121600, "reviewTime": "11 27, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3ATORX9LJWRUM", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "D. Kim \"bummster\"", "helpful": [109, 122], "reviewText": "this is a wonderful filter.clean your front element, place this filter on it, and now you never have to think about it again.  the thread fit is very good on both ends of it.the canon 67mm cap fits on the front of this filter perfectly.  there's even a slight raised metal lip so that the cap doesn't sit against the filter glass.well engineered, and worth the money.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "great filter", "unixReviewTime": 1117152000, "reviewTime": "05 27, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1SHHQSPOWR00F", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "E \"--\"", "helpful": [11, 13], "reviewText": "I bought this filter after owning a number of other filters, both uncoated and multicoated. When I took this filter out of the packaging, I could tell it was exceptionally well-made.  The glass is clean and the case is metal.  I will not buy another brand of filter anymore.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A Great Filter", "unixReviewTime": 1189728000, "reviewTime": "09 14, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2YEZ8Z3BW2SKG", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "eric melzer", "helpful": [15, 17], "reviewText": "This is a 77mm filter. Obviously you paid good money for your lens, so why get a $20 lens with cheap window glass that will just degrade your pictures? Sure, any filter will protect your lens from dust and scratches, but why not get one that actually reduces haze and helps your images?I would say that this particular filter is great, but it should be the cheapest you should go when buying a UV filter for a nice lens (and most 77mm lenses are pretty nice). Some people would say that this one is not good enough, but I have 2 of them for different 77mm lenses, and they work great.I learned the hard way though. I bought a canon 50mm prime lens and figured the best thing to get would be a canon UV haze filter. Bad idea. I got so many strange light reflections at night and if anything, it just made my pictures less clear. I ended up removing that piece of junk and my picture quality suddenly improved. Since then, I will only buy quality filters from names like B&W; and Hoya. Bottom line with optical products - you get what you pay for. So why put a $30 filter on a $800-$2000 lens? You might as well not use a filter at all - and get better results.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Don't get a cheap filter. Get this one.", "unixReviewTime": 1191542400, "reviewTime": "10 5, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1SA0RU0R45U6V", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "Evan Winston", "helpful": [28, 30], "reviewText": "I needed a good quality filter for my Nikon 18-200 DX lens. At first I was convinced by one of the other reviewers that this would vignette on my lens, so I looked into the 'slim' version of this filter. The slim version doesn't have any front threads however, so that was out.I work at a camera shop, so today I went in and threw this filter on an 18-200 on a D300. No vignetting. Simple as that. I went outside and took several test shots of the overcast sky, blank walls, etc. both with and without the filter and could not tell the difference. This is good news because I want this filter but also still want to be able to use my Nikon lens cap. Maybe the other guy was noticing the natural falloff that tends to happen with any zoom lens this wide...FYI: I checked this filter with a polarizer stacked on top of it and that setup DOES vignette at 18mm. This is easy to fix as all you have to do is remove this filter and then attach the polarizer, but that may annoy some people.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great filter, does NOT vignette at 18mm DX...", "unixReviewTime": 1250899200, "reviewTime": "08 22, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A2WKM9BXOC4JH9", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "Functional \"Info Center\"", "helpful": [33, 65], "reviewText": "I originally wrote a positive review for this product but now after having owned a few of these for over a year (with frequent use) I can report a very different side to these filters that many users will not notice until some time has elapsed.First I would like to mention that I am particular about my photography equipment and take steps to keep them clean. These filters were purchased with the intent to keep expensive lenses from getting covered in dust or damaged in regular use.These UV filters (and presumably others) work fine initially, but there is something the many positive reviews do not mention - these things are dust MAGNETS.That's right. I don't know what it is about these filters, but once you take your lens cap off you're going to have bits of dust and other airborne contaminants landing on there and getting stuck.A few specks of dust on the lens itself is no big deal - it will not even show in your photos, but the dust that sticks to these filters WILL show up on your photos if your photos have any kind of light areas.If you take a picture of the sky and do not have a perfectly clean B+W UV Haze filter, you will see black spots on the final exposure.I have tried to clean these using cotton cloth, microfiber and even methanol with no luck. By contrast I can keep my lenses clean with a simple puff of air or a wipe with microfiber. Even if there is some dust on my lens it does not show up in the photo as it does when it's stuck on the UV filter.The quality of the glass that these UV filters are made from is also questionable. When I hold the filter up to a light, I can see many imperfections in the glass that appear as frosting. These imperfections are in the glass itself and cannot be cleaned. I have several of these filters and all of them exhibit the same flaws.UV filters do not provide any benefit photographically as digital cameras are not susceptible to the coloration issues that UV light had on film.UV filters can and do diminish the quality of your photos by placing inferior glass in front of your lens. It's a catch-22 -- you paid good money for a lens to take nice photos, only to hamper it by sticking a filter in front of it. With this filter on your lens, every photo you take is like no different than shooting through a window. Contrast and fine detail both suffer.These UV filters will cause \"ghosts\" and other optical anomalies at certain angles that you will not experience if you remove the filter.In the end it's your call if you think it's worth the extra money to make your camera take worse pictures under the false notion that the UV filter offers some kind of \"protection\". Let's face it - if you drop your lens, the possibility for breaking it will not be reduced by having a UV filter on the front.UV filters DO NOT keep your lens clean because they themselves attract dust and dirt, in addition to being optically inferior to the glass used in the lens, so the net result is a photo that would have been better with no filter at all.Save your money for something more useful like another lens, a good flash or a quality bag to carry your gear. These filters are a WASTE OF MONEY.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "After extended testing - save your money", "unixReviewTime": 1317254400, "reviewTime": "09 29, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A3E4A4RXFDODN6", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "J. Childs", "helpful": [24, 110], "reviewText": "I would have wanted to know if Amazon.com is an authorized B+W dealer.  I would have wanted to know if Amazon.com sells grey market merchandise.  I would have wanted to know if The filter I purchased is grey market.  The filter I received from Amazon is a very different color than my other B+W UV  filters.  I don't purchase filters from Amazon.com any more.  I am looking very carefully into who sells grey market and who doesn't.  Jean", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "B+W UV filter", "unixReviewTime": 1238889600, "reviewTime": "04 5, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "AAHR2U1FY6WBP", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "Jonathan D. Bailey \"SomeAssemblyRequired\"", "helpful": [15, 58], "reviewText": "My filter arrived dirty, and with a piece of paint stuck to the glass.  Considering the extra expense of ordering a supposed high quality item, if I could rate this item a -1 I would.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Paint", "unixReviewTime": 1269820800, "reviewTime": "03 29, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "AOKQW4B5OQUXF", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "jptsr1", "helpful": [11, 12], "reviewText": "B+W makes the best filters out there in my opinion. Back when i was a pixel peeper I tested B+W against Hoya for image degradation and flare with side by side comparisons. B+W always came closest to a bare lens than Hoya in my eyes. I have these filters on all of my L glass. -1 for being outrageously expensive.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Best available.", "unixReviewTime": 1285545600, "reviewTime": "09 27, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A3OEWQXYMIXYVI", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "monoblocks", "helpful": [19, 21], "reviewText": "Simply put, there are more affordable options that provide more than adequate if not equal optics for the money. But if you swap filters often enough you'll probably find that B+W's filters have less issues with flex and, more importantly, soft (i.e., easily damaged) threads like those sold by Tiffen and Hoya that I've experienced in the past. Cross-threading a filter is NOT my idea of providing nice treatment to any of those expensive lenses of mine, and having done that once or twice in my lifetime I've sworn that I will always do my best to get the best-made filters available to protect and use on MY glass, even if it costs a bit more. Any filter can be damaged, but I've had great experiences with B+W products and until they prove themselves otherwise unworthy, will continue to use them again and again.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Quality materials and construction make the price worth it", "unixReviewTime": 1210982400, "reviewTime": "05 17, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A14PD46UH3QMV8", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "Ms Lucky 1", "helpful": [20, 30], "reviewText": "This seems to be a really well-made lens.  The only problem is that the ring is so thick that on my camera I get vignetting in the corners of most of my photos. Next time I would definitely choose a lens that's thinner.  I'm using a Nikon D200 with a  Nikkor 18-200mm lens.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Nice lens, but thickness causes vignetting", "unixReviewTime": 1191456000, "reviewTime": "10 4, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AKKCR0KXTVVGN", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "Ryan E. Duncan", "helpful": [29, 32], "reviewText": "I have always used protective filters on my lenses.  I had been a loyal Tiffen user for a long time but for the past couple years I felt the quality of some of their filters had been bad.Recently I purchased a new lens and ordered the Tiffen UV Protector per usual.  Unfortunately I immediately noticed that my images had really bad glare in low light situations.  I knew Tiffen had better quality (or supposed)filters so I \"upgraded to their Digital Ultra Clear protective filter but got the exact same issues...I had really bad glare in low light.After some research and recommendations from other people I found B+W MRC filters.  I purchased this filter and immediately put it on my lens when it came in.  After several test shots (I have a room in my house that could reliably generate the same glare with the Tiffen filters) I could not find any glare at all!!!Lesson learned...multi-coated is the way to go and even though they are higher priced...B+W MRC are very good quality that will not impact image quality.Do NOT put cheap filters on your lenses...I used to and will never again.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "No Glare!", "unixReviewTime": 1264809600, "reviewTime": "01 30, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A1SV33K0SHQBSY", "asin": "B0000BZL1P", "reviewerName": "Sam", "helpful": [17, 32], "reviewText": "I ordered two B+W filters from Amazon. They came in one shipment. Since they were small items, I took them with me for my oversea photography trip.When I opened the items, the 46 mm filter was obviously an used one with the metal rim scratched and discolored. As my return date would be over the deadline for return and I had to use the filters, I simply did not bother to return it. From the previous reviews written by other customers, it seemed that Amazon did ship used items from time to time. I would advise customers to carefully check expensive items they received carefully to avoid getting used items. Amazon should also be more careful checking the items before they ship.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Amazon shipped an used item", "unixReviewTime": 1346284800, "reviewTime": "08 30, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A32QOZWIKQDNZX", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "Alex Vox", "helpful": [11, 52], "reviewText": "Camera quality is disaster. It badly fits in the hands, it unsteady and cumbersome to operate. The image quality is so-so. Mid-tones are very poor, color rendering as a cartoon film like. All colors are &quot;pop up&quot;, it is not a photography tool to my view. I have tried it against 5M Sony f717 and it blew it out of water in every aspect. Moreover, the &quot;stretched&quot; to 6M images from Sony are looking better. The 18-50 &quot;lens&quot; is so embarrassing that Canon should be ashamed to market such khe-khe, lens (with failing front element and unsteady focus). Some one has be really inspired by Canon's advertising movies to pay $1000 for such &quot;camera&quot;.  It new feels like came out of trash box.Before review it, I would recommend take it in to the hands and try along with something else.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Cheapo, low quality aka &quot;pro&quot; rebel.", "unixReviewTime": 1071619200, "reviewTime": "12 17, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "AUT9HSLT32RGJ", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "Arthur P. Haviland Jr. \"AirshowFan\"", "helpful": [12, 13], "reviewText": "I've had the camera for two weeks and it has taken fantastic shots indoors and outdoors in various lighting conditions. Novices should consider this camera. It is easy to use with settings for auto, portrait, landscape, macro, sport and more. When you gain knowledge, you have full manual control. Unless you already have Canon EF lenses, buy the camera with the 18-55mm lens. It is a good choice and will get you started at a fantastic price. The portrait mode is great. It will focus on your subject with a wide aperture that will blur the background. The landscape mode does just the opposite. My foliage shots this year taken with this camera are the best I have ever captured. I have shot over 200 images without needing to change batteries, but I keep a spare with me. There is no compact flash card provided with the camera. You will want to get a large one, 512mb or more. If you take a few pictures while on vacation, this is not the camera for you. If photography is your hobby, then get this camera now. You will not regret it.Update: 1/4/2007After two years of heavy use, the shutter failed on my Digital Rebel. Fortunately, I had purchased the camera at Best Buy with their extended warranty. I brought the camera back and they replaced it with a Digital Rebel XT that I now use as a backup to my Canon 20D. If you are buying one of these cameras used, you should know that shutter failure is a potential defect. Try it before you buy it if at all possible.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent choice for novice or advanced photographers", "unixReviewTime": 1066521600, "reviewTime": "10 19, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A39KJOCZGCM8P1", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "Chris Lee Mullins", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "Giving the number of stellar reviews this camera has received, I guess the Digital Rebel can do no wrong.I switched from a Canon Powershot G2, a camera with which I took over 14,000 pictures. I loved my G2 but it had seen way too much action. Plus, I wanted the luxury of interchangable lenses. My wife had a normal film Rebel SLR, so for sake of compatibility, I figured I'd stick with Canon again.One Digital Rebel and $2000 in lenses later, I'm happy to say that I'm very pleased. The quality over your average Point & Shoot cameras is significant. The Rebel opened a whole new door for me when it came to post-processing. I found myself encouranged to use Photoshop, putting some spin on otherwise poor photographs. Yes, the Rebel does have a significant learning curve, especially if you move away from the Point and Shoot settings. I had to learn nomenclature and settings, but figured it out eventually. The manual was fairly helpful in this regard.If you are worried about moving from a PnS camera system to the Prosumer side, don't be. The Rebel does have those PnS settings. The only thing you'll be sacrificing is Movie Mode, as the mirror occludes the sensor. Well...you might be sacrificing some cash as you discover the multitude of EF and EF-S lenses that Canon has to offer.If you do purchase the kit with the 18-55mm EF-S lens, be prepared to exchange it for something else. For the record, I purchased three lenses with this camera - a 17-40mm 4.0/L for outdoor photography, a 50mm 1.4f lens for indoor portrait work, and a 75-300mm USM IS for aircraft and wildlife photography. Just like the camera, each of those lenses has served me well.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Improved my pictures 100%", "unixReviewTime": 1109116800, "reviewTime": "02 23, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3JZ7ZC39PM2KH", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "Dan Eppinger", "helpful": [21, 21], "reviewText": "As I wrote in my review of the Canon s60, I planned to purchase the digital rebel...Well, I did and the camera is all that other reviewers say it is....super easy to use, superb photos, decent price considering the competition...The fact that I am shooting through the lens and seeing what I am capturing is well worth the extra money for an SLR.The main reason that I am posting this review (which really seems redundant to most of the other reviews of this camera) is to recommend two additional accessory purchases which I found invaluable:(1) The Sigma 55-200 lens specifically made for digital SLR.s. I bought this lens at B&H; for $139. It is very sharp, very light and compact and gives me a total shooting range (combined with the Canon included lens) of 18-200, taking me to over 300 in the  35mm format equivalent.(2) The Pelican 1400 Case: also at B&H; for about $61....The case protects the equipment far better than any case at anywhere near the price....It nicely holds the camera body with either the kit lens or the Sigma 55-200 attached...In addition it perfectly holds the lens that you are not using at the time, as well as the Canon external flash..I have the 420EX..This is about it...not a lot of wasted space..the case is now full and easy to toss in the compartment above my seat on the plane.. ..knowing my equipment is fully protected....The case also is easy to operate from when in my car.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Camera-Buy Sigma Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1106179200, "reviewTime": "01 20, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AXLQP6J93X2NQ", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "Daniel Wild", "helpful": [16, 16], "reviewText": "I purchased my 300D in May 2005, when the XT was released and this 6.3 MP model's price began falling. I'd have to really pick this camera apart to tell you the downsides of it; disregard reviews by those who think this camera is not up to par -- of course it's not comparable to the EOS 1-Series or a 5D, so don't expect the same features or capabilities. The right user, however, can get similar results.That said, unless you are a professional photographer, I cannot imagine how the Digital Rebel could be inadequate for any amateur or semi-pro shooter. It's speed and megapixels have since been passed by, but it's still, especially now, a great buy.The kit lens will perform for you just fine, although most of my shots with the kit lens are at 18mm, landscape or just wide-angle shots. The flash works very well in most situations, even in extremely dark rooms. One guy complained his AF hunted in low light situations, even with flash...of course, what do you expect in a dark room? Use manual focus and grow up.Quality is great from ISO 100-400, although 800 can be somewhat ugly at times, and 1600 is basically unusable, especially if you're not shooting at f/2.8 or bigger.My main complaints: slow start-up time compared to the newer models (XT, 20D, etc) ... camera seems to be out of breath after continuous shooting; take 8 shots quickly and you may notice the camera needs to process info before it can shoot again. 2.5 frames/second is not very fast if you're shooting any sports.Overall, this camera has been incredibly reliable for me; it's gotten me front page shots on newspapers, magazine covers, calendars and websites. I used it so much that I blew out the shutter in 10 months; Canon fixed it at no charge and it works fine since. One minor problem: very rarely, it won't turn on unless I remove the battery and re-insert it.I've found the battery life to be fantastic. I can use it all day, even with flash, and still have some life at the end of the day. A backup battery in your bag should give you more than enough insurance for a day.I've printed at 11x17 with excellent results.With some practice, it's very easy to navigate. Menus and options are simple; changing the ISO or aperture is very easy despite what some have complained about. It's very reliable in fully-auto mode as well, especially if you're shooting with flash. A memory card reader is a must when uploading images.Overall: it's old news in the world of digital SLRs, but right now, a new or used model at such a good price is really is great value.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great value, great results", "unixReviewTime": 1163980800, "reviewTime": "11 20, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1VIYIH3RAQRZO", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "DuoArtDude \"DuoArtDude\"", "helpful": [17, 17], "reviewText": "The one dissenting opinion in these reviews was obviously written by an \"uninformed person\".  This is far from a \"Just for beginners\" camera.  I've been shooting 35MM SLRs for over 30 years and digital for over 5 years.  This is the first affordable digital SLR... ever!... While it certainly lacks features compared to it's brothers the 1D and 1Ds and 10D, it is a worthy SLR digicam which is light years beyond anything in it's price class. Buy this camera with confidence.  It will be a classic.  Ignore the reviewer who gives no supporting evidence for his assertions.  Sure you can pay 2 to 10 times as much and get a DSLR that is better, but do you really need it?  This camera is perfect for 90% of DSLR users. Many of us are NOT beginners by a long shot!!  There are plenty of professional photographers using older and less feature packed film cameras and probably shooting better pics than that reviewer!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Beginners only my ...!", "unixReviewTime": 1069286400, "reviewTime": "11 20, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A2AP7MAWZPHPNC", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "Evelyn Rosado \"Evelyn\"", "helpful": [35, 38], "reviewText": "I read every available review before purchasing this camera. I knew it was good, but didn't know how good until I got it in my hands.  All I can say is wow!!  I've been using Olympus digitals for about 5 years and have been very happy with their cameras.  My most recent was the C-50.I did own a Rebel GII, which took great pictures using film.  This Digital Rebel goes beyond that.  I was amazed at the colors &amp; the sharpness of the pictures.  I'm not the best photographer in the world, but this camera makes me feel like one.  I haven't taken a bad shot yet.The camera does have some weight to it, but it works to your advantage because there is less shaking when taking pictures.  Also, you HAVE to look through the viewfinder to compose your shot-not the LCD screen.  You can take 4 consecutive pictures w/o any delay, love that for action shots.  The first time the flash popped up scared me, but you get used to it.I have yet to find anything wrong with this camera.  The controls are easy to navigate, menu is easy to see.  It even rotates your pictures for you.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "WOW!", "unixReviewTime": 1070064000, "reviewTime": "11 29, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A2XU6J41ZQOJ2V", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "Gary in Sun City, AZ", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "I have owned a Canon EOS Digital Rebel 6.3mp for several weeks now and love it. Fantastic pictures & features. I worked with SLR's for many years. Figured it was time to \"move up\" to the digital SLR and glad I did. This camera has plenty of features available, or you can just set it for \"auto\" and that works fine, too. Though an optional flash is not needed for most photography I wanted one for far shots and such. Canon makes several models dedicated to this camera, but I find them weak (220EX) or costly.  Shop carefully in trying to find a compatible flash. It needs to be \"dedicated\" to the digital Rebels. One that will work with AF (auto focus) or the SLR (film) Rebel may not work right.  I also received conflicting information from Ritz Camera, both on-line and in the stores. Bottom line, if you need a flash, shop carefully and ask all the right questions. Personally I have held off buying one hoping more models at a lower price come out. The camera does already have a small pop-up flash. BTW, the Tamron AF 70-300 Macro 1:2 zoom is a nice lens to buy with it, and priced nicely at Beach Camera. UPDATE 1/2010: Here it is nearly 5 years later, and my Rebel is still working great! It has never gone in for service and nothing has ever gone wrong with it. Of course, I take care of things. I carried a Mack 5-year extended warranty and have never needed to use it. I just purchased my second Canon dSLR, the XSi with 12.2mp.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great camera!", "unixReviewTime": 1121558400, "reviewTime": "07 17, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2Y3FAO82SU0M0", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "H. W", "helpful": [23, 26], "reviewText": "I just bought and used this camera for about three weeks (without the kit lens since I have several other Canon lenes already, which are better than the kit lens in terms of image quality). Canon recently throws a lot of rebates on this model (up to $300 rebate if you buy two other Canon lenses). This is an incredible deal. Is this the best entry level DSLR? My answer is \"probably yes, but with some reservation on its features\". Marketed as an entry level DSLR, it is reasonable to expect some tradeoff due to cost cutting. But some of Canon's design decisions are puzzling at best, which compromises its quality and functionality, without reducing overall cost (in other words, it could be done better without incurring additional cost). Here is my exprience.On the up side:The camera feels solid with the right weight. Originally I though it may feel flimsy and overly light since it is made of plastic (the feeling you get of Canon Rebel film camera), but as soon as I took that out of the package, I started to like its weight (not too heavy as you feel for metal-bodied SLR, not too light). Of course, it is still heavier (with lens attached) than consumer grade digital cameras.The camera's operation is much like other Canon SLRs. It has same lens mount (EF mount) as all other modern Canon SLRs which also means you can use all your Canon EF lens (or other third party lenses which conform to EF standard, I use a Tamron lens on this camera without problem). It can also use new EF-S mount lens which is what the kit lens uses. But since EF-S lens is relatively new and can be only used on this camera (and D20 which newly comes out), be aware of Canon's commitment to this lens format in the long term and prepare to throw away EF-S lenses after several years. The controls on the back side of the camera is different than most Canon's consumer grade digital cameras and film SLRs. So if you come from these worlds, there is something to learn, but not too much though.Image quality is superb. Not only it has 6Mpixel resolution, but the overall noise level of image is very low. At ISO 100, image is silk smooth. At ISO 800, noise is visible but pretty controlled. At ISO 1600, noise is much bigger, but still usable, especially you use some noise reduction tools to post processing such image. It surely beats ALL consumer and prosumer level digital cameras on the noise front. And the reason is it uses large CMOS sensor, much bigger than smaller CCD sensor used in consumer digital cameras. So if you are looking at low light performance, you have to use a DSLR like Canon digital rebel. Of course, the image quality of a DSLR also depends on what lens you use. Most of Canon's lenses should deliver better results than most consumer digital cameras.The builtin flash pops up high, which is good. Unlike the flash on film rebel, which pops up low and its light may be obstructed by some large lenses, this flash should work well for most lenses. However, see my comments below, it does have some shortcomings.Focusing is adequate as you can expect from a SLR. The seven point auto focus sometimes does the wrong focusing, and you can select focus point to overcome this. It is not superb, but not bad either.Now comes the down side:Compact flash write speed is quite slow. Even use a high speed CF card (I use Lexar 80X), it still appears slow and not utilizes the full potential of these fast CF cards. When you shoot 4 photos at once, you have to wait the camera buffer to be emptied to CF to continue. This takes somewhere from 10 seconds to 20 seconds depending on your CF card.No LCD display of image you are trying to shoot. Almost all consumer digital cameras allow you view objects in the LCD screen. You have to look closely though the small viewfinder window to track objects. This is a very convenient feature to have so I am wondering why Canon does not do this if it is targeting non-professional photographers.There is no flash compensation. Again you can find this feature on many Canon's consumer level digital cameras. Another disappointment.Metering is odd. You have to use the standard evaluative mode most of the times without any other choices. I'd like to see different metering modes available under all shooting modes. Occasionally, I feel some images are underexposed.Downloading images to your computer is absolutely painfully slow. It uses a USB 1.1 interface - why not USB 2.0 or firewire? The download speed feels slower than the old Canon G2 I have. If you shoot a full 2GB of images, expect several hours of downloading.Why a seperate battery charger? Old Canon G2 has builtin battery charger so you don't need to pull out the bettary to charge. Moving battery in and out every time it runs out is a hassel.So overall, I think it is a great camera, but if Canon can do more to fix/enhance these issues, that would make this camera an absolute hit. Also at this price range (I paid $750 before rebate) it is the lowest priced DSLR on the market.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "The best entry level DSLR? It could be better.", "unixReviewTime": 1100822400, "reviewTime": "11 19, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "ABH9D1TEOJ56E", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "jemaerca", "helpful": [149, 154], "reviewText": "canon's competitors must be scratching their collective heads wondering how canon has managed to deliver a true interchangeable-lens digital SLR for less than a thousand bucks.  this is nothing short of a revolution in the d-SLRs world and it's hard not to get excited!pros:- can't stress this enough: value, value, value - a formidable d-SLR has landed south of the thousand dollar barrier.- 6MP CMOS sensor.- excellent resolution matches canon's own EOS 10D.- seven manually selectable AF points - fast and reliable.- 2.5fps continuous shooting speed up to four images regardless of resolution.- accurate color reproduction.- images virtually noise free at ISO 800 and below.- very little redeye occurrence.- good metering, although no direct control of metering mode.- good manual preset white balance.- shooting priority play mode - simply half-press the shutter during playback and you're ready to shoot.- supports RAW format.- excellent AF speeds, with virtually no shutter lag.- impressive shot to shot times - basically you can shoot as fast as you can compose your shot.- good selection of exposure modes.- orientation sensor for automatic image rotation.- playback magnification up to 10x.- allows computer controlled shooting with included software.- feels solidly built despite the plastic body.- easy to use, integrated controls and displays.- bright, high resolution LCD.- fully compatible with canon extensive lens line.- excellent battery life (but i still recommend getting a spare).- excellent printed manual and supplied software bundle.cons:- to minimize cannibalization of 10D sales, the 300D has been pre-programmed to have less flexibility (forced AI focus, forced evaluative metering, etc).- no spot metering.- low noise levels at ISO 1600.- no flash exposure compensation.- cannot fine-tune white balance.- make sure you don't open the memory door while the camera is writing into the flash memory or else you will lose everything that's left in the internal memory buffer.- plastic body with compartment doors that should be meatier.- LCD has no anti-reflective coating.- reduced continuous shooting rate and buffer size (2.5 fps for max 4 images) vs the 10D.- ISO sensitivity not displayed on viewfinder status bar while being changed.- no flash memory provided so add a few $$ to your budget to get at least 128MB.- proprietary battery - again, a few more bucks for a spare.there's nothing in the market that can touch this camera today.  if you're shopping for a camera in the thousand dollar range, make sure you take a close look at the 300D.i hope this helps you with your buying decision.  peace.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "amazing camera, incredible price!  canon has outdone itself.", "unixReviewTime": 1064534400, "reviewTime": "09 26, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A1DSRM2P0WGQNS", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "J. Moore \"Zombie Prep Network\"", "helpful": [47, 54], "reviewText": "I just got my digital rebel and I don't want to put it down.First, of all the camera is pretty hefty. I actually like heft to my camera as the weight helps reduce camera shake.Second, the thing is so quiet it's scary. The noisiest thing is the flash popping up - followed by the mirror moving for the shutter.Third - image quality is a killer, and I love the ability to change white balance, iso speed etc.And like other EOS models this camera lets me have as much or as little control over the exposure as I want. I can go all point and shoot automatic if I just want to pop off a few shots of friends at a party, or I can go fully manual to give Ansel Adams a run for his money.6.3 megapixels - holy crap dude! There isn't much I currently do where I woudl ever need more than that, and if I do, I'll go rent a Hassie with a digital back or something.Auto-Focus is fast and sharp, and of course you can go manual as well. Transferring the image onto the card is a sub-second operation - nice auto drive feature.This camera has set a new bar for the digital camera market!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "absolutely sweet prosumer digital camera", "unixReviewTime": 1067558400, "reviewTime": "10 31, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A1RIUR4MPC3PGF", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "J. Morrison \"Your average consumer\"", "helpful": [16, 17], "reviewText": "I promised myself that as soon as SLR digitals got below $1000, I'd get one.  I saw this at Best Buy and bought it on the spot.  (Should have waited and bought on Amazon cheaper).  This camera rocks.  I've used several so called &quot;point and shoot&quot; digital cameras by Olympus and Nikon and this one is much easier to use.  Auto focus is amzingly fast and accurate.  Auto flash detection.  Swapable lenes with my older film Rebel.  Battery lasts me well over 150 shots on one charge.  Amazing picture quality.Do not spend $500-$600 on some lower end digital camera with a fixed lens.  This is the real deal.  Look at the reviews...perfect!  This will be the last digital you'll ever need unless you go pro.  Buy it, Buy it, Buy it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Buy this camera...you won't be sorry!", "unixReviewTime": 1069372800, "reviewTime": "11 21, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A3K1LK6DJCVPUK", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "K. Palmer", "helpful": [25, 25], "reviewText": "I bought a Canon 35mm Rebel SLR 8 years ago and loved it so much, I eventually bought two more Canon film cameras over the years, including lots of lenses and goodies.  But a couple of years ago, I wanted to make the switch to digital.  The Canon digital SLRs were out of my price range ($3K to start), so I purchased a Powershot G2 digital point and shoot, which I loved, but my lenses sat unused in my closet.Well, I fret no more as Canon came out with the much more affordable Digital Rebel for under $1,000 and I finally took the plunge.  A great decision.  Now I can use my lenses.  I have a 50mm 1.8 (word of advice - if you don't have it yet, get this lens - the best $80 you'll spend on your hobby), 28-135mm Image stabilizer and a 75-300mm zoom along with the 18-55mm kit lens that came with the Digital Rebel.  This along with the 380EX flash that I have had for 5+ years give me the arsenal to take good shots in most conditions.  You can set ISO to 800 or 1600 to get clear indoor shots or sports action, and the noise associated with these settings is much more acceptable to me than the 400 ISO setting provided on my G2.  And as far as portraits go, combine the 50mm lens with the flash and I've taken some of the best face shots in my life.Also making me happy is that Rebel takes the same battery as the G2, so I use my G2 battery plus the Rebel battery along with the two extras I bought), meaning I should never run out of power (what helps with battery life is that unlike the G2, you can't use the display monitor to frame the picture, you must use the viewfinder).  Plus the camera takes Compact Flash cards, again like the G2, so I don't have to spend on new memory.If I have a gripe, is that some pictures come out a tad underexposed even with the flash, but this is generally remedied in image software.  And I miss the movie mode in the G2, but certainly can live with it.After 4 months, all is well with the Rebel and I can't wait to upgrade in the future.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "If You're A Canon 35mm Fan, Time To Make The Move To Digital", "unixReviewTime": 1082505600, "reviewTime": "04 21, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "ALYOQ8324079Y", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "Maddi Hausmann Sojourner \"madhaus\"", "helpful": [649, 666], "reviewText": "I went digital 5 years ago.  My first was one of the very old Olypus digitals; no removable storage, just a cable to the computer, 120 low resolution or 30 medium resolution shots and then the memory was full.  The colors were always off, there was no zoom, and it was amazing that it worked at all.  No wonder I also bought a pocket 35mm camera to take &quot;real&quot; pictures since the Olympus' were so small, grainy, and colorless.  At least the 35mm had a datestamp option.  3 years later I bought the Canon PowerShot S30, then when I lost it (or had it stolen?) I replaced it with the S40.  The PowerShot S50 sold today is the same body style with more pixels and a couple of annoyances fixed.This camera is NOTHING like those cameras.  I had plenty of complaints about the S30 &amp; S40.  My biggest gripe was missing the shot.  I take pictures of children, especially at school functions.  I would line up a wonderful shot, push the button... and they would move!  They'd get up and walk away, they'd turn around, they'd crowd into the subject, I was missing 80% of my shots.  About a year later, the shutter would finally click.  So my hard drive is filled with so-so shots that would have been winners if that annoying delay hadn't gotten me... again!No problem with the Digital Rebel.  Press the button, focus is lightning-fast, then click goes the shutter.  You look through the viewfinder to frame your shot, not at the back on those hard-to-read LCD screens.  Several modes allow multiple pictures, just in case, such as in Sports mode. I am seeing such an improvement in my pictures since I got this camera a few weeks ago.  First of all, they are always framed properly, because I'm not dealing with sudden motion after shutter release, nor am I dealing with an LCD for a viewfinder, or a &quot;viewfinder&quot; that makes me correct for parallax.  Next, the colors are amazing.  Third, 6.3 megapixels... when would I ever want that much?  When I want to crop 80% of the picture and still print what's left!It is great to have a camera with some heft that still doesn't feel like a brick.  As everyone else says, get the kit lens.  It is 18 to 55mm, so a nice wide-angle lens for group shots, etc.  I find 55mm not close enough for shooting children; the S30/S40 I mention above has an 11-55mm range which I already knew to be insufficient for shooting kids. Thus I bought the Canon 28-200mm zoom lens and keep that one on the camera, only switching to the kit lens when I do big groups or a lot of similar portraits (that big zoom lens weighs four times as much as the body!)Yes, it is an amazing camera for &quot;under&quot; $1000.  Truth be told, I spent more than that on accessories; the 28-200mm lens was almost $500, with 6.3 megapixels you might as well buy the biggest flashcard you can, and that's 2 GB these days; you'll need a case, you really ought to buy skylight filters to protect those lenses from getting scratched, an extra battery is a really good idea... well, you see what I mean.Still an amazing camera, especially after dealing with those tiny toys for all these years.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "totally outstanding digital camera", "unixReviewTime": 1068422400, "reviewTime": "11 10, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A31EWAL58YLWIR", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "Mark A. Foster", "helpful": [19, 19], "reviewText": "I have been using this camera for nearly a year now and have since purchased additional lens for it.  It takes very sharp pictures and I don't feel like I am limited by the feature set in anyway except for lack of being able to shoot RAW in some of the user modes.  The lens that it comes with is a good starter lens and takes good pictures but once you get addicted you might end up purchasing a Canon L and or Prime like I did. :)  This camera is great for learning photography with because you get to see your results very quickly!  This camera just takes great pictures and gives you all the control you need to get creative with exposure, focus, etc.  The plastic body is relatively durable although I wouldn't want to drop it but then would you want to drop a metal body camera either?!  Do not fear, even with a plastic body it has that solid SLR feel.  All my hard copy prints from the online digital photo lab look very sharp.  I even had a poster print done and it came out great.  Many people claimed that 6 Megapixal camera is not enough to make a good poster print.  After seeing the results I say hogwash.  The poster print I got back from the online photolab(Ofoto in this case) was a better quality print than any poster print I have seen at the mall poster store.  8x10 prints are simply stunning.  Take the time to go through the manual and learn all the features of the camera.  I can not really comment on the software that comes with the camera because I never mess software that they bundle with cameras.  I use a good card reader, Windows XP for my OS, Irfanview (which is free) for viewing and mild editing, and Photoshop(not so free) for any major editing.  I found the Sandisk Ultra II Compact Flash cards work very well and are worth the extra dough for the faster performance.  I wish I had RAW in all the user modes but I guess Canon had cripple something like this to convince people to shell out the extra dough for the higher end stuff.  Happy picture taking!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great SLR with only one feature I miss...", "unixReviewTime": 1105315200, "reviewTime": "01 10, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1PN2U0AWXGVML", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "Mark", "helpful": [17, 17], "reviewText": "Had this camera now almost 2 months, took over 1200 pictures. I had some enlarged to 12&quot;x18&quot; and there is no graininess in the pictures. I showed them to people and they thought they were absolutely beautiful. In order to get a &quot;crystal clear&quot; picture (like regular 35mm SLRs), you should always use a tripod, even if the shutter speed seems fast as I can tell the difference between using the tripod and not using it. Only that way will the pics look very sharp. I'm sure lots of these reviews say you see a soft look but if you use the tripod you will see sharp lines, etc. My 3 second waterfall pics look as good as any I've ever seen. I'm sure that the graininess will start to show larger than 12&quot;x18&quot;. By the way, use the timer to get pics so you don't wiggle the camera when you push the button or buy the corded remote which works great as a timed &quot;bulb&quot; timer.As for the flash, well its not the best but for everyday snapshots it works fine. I suggest the 420EX by canon for a great flash.Plastic body isn't as good as the more expensive cameras but it is very hard plastic and feels extremely solid.The camera's lens that comes with it is good, not great but very capable for the extra cost of the camera.One of the drawbacks is the mirror instead of a prism in the more expensive cameras and also the mirror 'slap' seems louder and may cause more vibration, which could lead to less sharp pics. But I would say that is it. The camera is very formidible and I seriously recommend it to anyone.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Absolutely the best digital camera for the price", "unixReviewTime": 1078790400, "reviewTime": "03 9, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A2SHQJP6PNQTLD", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "M. H. Bayliss \"book queen\"", "helpful": [15, 18], "reviewText": "I had an Olympus digital camera for several years but it started to frustrate me.  The two HUGE advantages the Canon has is that 1 -- there is NO shutter delay that makes you miss the shot:  the shot is taken as soon as you press the button and 2 -- you can buy high quality lenses that make the camera even more amazing.  Let me say I'm not a pro photographer or anything, but I figured out how to use all the features of this camera within a day or so.  It's very intuitive and fun.  Don't be afraid to step up from your non SLR camera.  Besides, you can still \"point and shoot\" in automatic modes, but it's awesome to be able to control just the aperature or just the shutter speed.  The pictures this camera takes are incredible!!!  I have to admit I've gotten gadget fever.  I'll make some recommendations based on my two weeks with the camera.1 -- buy a 1GB or bigger compact flash card with fast download speed.  At big megastores they are very much discounted.  Also, don't forget to REFORMAT the card every time you put it back -- my old cards always got \"corrupted\" and the way to avoid that is to reformat every time (just takes 2 seconds -- use the \"format card\" option on the camera menu).2 -- buy an external flash.  You'll notice that the internal flash tends to overexpose yoru subjects -- I bought the Canon 420 (or something like that) and it's amazing. My pics are TWICE as good3 -- I'd recommend NOT buying the kit lens and putting that money towards the exact Canon EF lens you'll need.  I bought one zoom and one prime lens and the quality is 10 times better. Plus, a 1000 camera deserves high quality lenses.4 -- don't forget the crop factor when you buy lenses!  It's hard to find this out on your own, but because of where the sensor is on Digital SLRS, you have to multiply the focal length of the lens by 1.6.  So, a 35 mm lens if you put it on this camera is equivalent to a 55mm lens, and so on.  Plus, if you have other non-digital cameras, be sure to be EF lenses only, not EF S which only fit on digital cameras.My only complaint (and this is nitpicking) on this camera is that I wish the finish were tougher looking and not quite so plasticky.  I like the Nikon cameras and upper level canon camera materials, but I understand that this is how Canon can sell a camera which is optically as good as the 10D for a lot less. On the plus side, it's nice and light.These are my thoughts after the first few weeks -- I LOVE the camera overall and now that I have two great lens, my pics look almost professional, not bad for a mom who doesn't know much about photography.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Almost idiot proof", "unixReviewTime": 1107561600, "reviewTime": "02 5, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2G2QNKDL1Y6AC", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "mister_t42", "helpful": [303, 309], "reviewText": "I've owned three digital cameras before this (a very small Sony, a Canon G1, and an older Kodak), and have been impressed with instant feedback received by viewing your photo 2 seconds after you took it, but was always left with the feeling that I needed to be able to change lenses and have more control over the process.What I really wanted was my old Canon EOS 650 (35mm) camera to work with a digital camara back so that I could make use of my existing investment in lenses.  Well guess what, that is exactly what the Digital Rebel provides!Much to my surprise, all of my old EOS EF lenses work very well with this camera and I am getting much better results than I expected.  This is a huge improvement over my other digicams - better resolution, color, overall quality, and I am in awe of what I get with my long telephoto lens.A few notes.  First, buy the kit lens (18-55mm EF-S); for $100 you'll use the lense and it is an incredible value (certinaly worth 2 to 3 times the cost).  Second, if you take many indoor photos you'll want an external flash; I went with Canon's 420EX unti as it provides E-TTL exposure (essentially, the amount of flash is controlled by what the camera meters through the lens - a pretty amazing capability).  Third, get a good amount of memory, like 2 512K card; its relatively inexpensive and by taking lots of photos you'll learn more about the camera's abilities sooner.I am getting very long battery life (well into many hundreds of photos per charge), so unless you are headed off into the woods you may be able to hold off on purchasing a spare battery.In summary, if you are an old 35mm EOS photographer, this is a complete no brainer since you get to use your lens investment.  If you aren't, I'd highly recommend this camera anyway (and look into the Canon 70-200mm/f4 telephoto lense - its extremely high quality and a reasonable price).  Now smile and say \"Canon\".", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Thinking about a move from 35mm EOS?  Buy This!!", "unixReviewTime": 1071619200, "reviewTime": "12 17, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "AN92S28RV1FQ4", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "Nicolas S. Martin", "helpful": [20, 31], "reviewText": "I'm enjoying this camera. It certainly offers great value for the dollar. It probably offers the right number of features and full user controllability. I've never used a camera in which ISO and exposure are so easily and quickly modified for each shot.Considerably smaller cameras do have larger LCD displays, though you don't need the LCD to view your subject. I wonder why, since many camcorders offer a \"night shot\" option, Canon could not also include that on this camera. I also miss the high speed connection that is standard on many camcorders. (Firewire, and now new Firewire 800, are faster than USB 1/2.) I recommend buying one of Canon's better accessory flash units.You can purchase many Canon EF lenses very inexpensively that work fine with this camera, especially the telephotos since they don't suffer from the edge clarity drop off that older lenses can produce on digital cameras. Perhaps it is better to wait for the newer wide angles. The lens that comes with the Rebel is fine.For years Consumers Reports has surveyed readers and found that Canon camcorders are among the worst in reliability. Since technology has moved both cameras and camcorders to digital, one hopes that the same problem doesn't afflict Canon cameras like this one.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Good quality, easy to use, decent features", "unixReviewTime": 1068681600, "reviewTime": "11 13, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A2DGP3CC6D0TKL", "asin": "B0000C8VEK", "reviewerName": "paparazzi83", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "As with any digital camera on the market, there is no &quot;perfect&quot; price/perfomance ratio. The DRebel however at the time it was released was arguably a excellent camera for the cost! The pictures (if taken correctly) can be amazing. And the manual control of the camera gives you a lot of artistic freedom I have yet to see in other cameras. Even though all my friends are dissapointed that one cannot look at the LCD there's assurance in the viewfinder because what you see is really what you get. Oh, and that wide angle lens... wow! You have no clue what a difference that makes in a small room! This camera is a great value! The only problem I had is that after 18,000 shots in 90 days the auto-focus went out, something that could be easily repaired by Canon but since the store I bought it from has a 90-day return policy I opted to return the camera and buy a Canon 10D.Some small annoyances I wish Canon will fix since Nikon is hot on their tail- The slap of the mirror is in excess. Really. Trying to take pictures in a quiet room can be very unnerving.- The Compact-Flash Read/Write borders on pitiful sometimes. Yeah I know the files are large but it really takes just too long.- You learn easily that the 4 image buffer isn't enough if you photograph action.- Uh, why on earth are the Aperature and LCD Light buttons about an inch away from my thumb? They need to be moved closer.- When ISO or WB are adjusted it would be nice to have that information in the viewfinder- it's annoying having to hold the camera down to adjust these two paramaters (no real excuse about the ISO!)I think that's about it. If you have NO investment in lenses I may suggest a Nikon D70 if you can afford it, should you think you will become a serious photographer. If you have any Canon EF lenses the D-Rebel is a great choice, especially if you cannot afford a 10D or a new investment in Nikon and the D70. If you barely have the cash for a D-Rebel buy the D-Rebel. Or if you want to be a casual user.I would buy a D70, however bought an extra 28-200mm Tamron Canon Lens so I will end up purchasing a Canon 10D. :)Hope any of this helps!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "It's the best for less than $1,000!!!", "unixReviewTime": 1083801600, "reviewTime": "05 6, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A3RYW3OSMMU6SF", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "Bob Calvinoliusizeron", "helpful": [24, 26], "reviewText": "I am foolish. I read all these horrible reviews about the product and thought &quot;Maybe it won't happen to me, it won't break down, maybe it only happens to very few people&quot;. I was wrong. I had the product for 98 days. It worked perfect and I loved it, it was the best electronic I had. I liked it more then my mp3 player, my car stereo, my digital camera. It could do so much and was useful, easy, and fun. But on the 98th day at school, I turned it on and all it showed was that Palm Logo. The screen light kept flickering then after 10 seconds didn't light up. It just stayed there. I tried turning it off, taking out the batteries, and everything, but none of that worked. Still showed that Palm Logo. I thought it would stop after a few hours, so when I got home I took it out and it was still like that. I tried to soft reset and hard reset. Nothing worked. So after a week, it was still like this. I didn't bother to waste my time to call Tech Support, and plus I hear they charge you money to call them after the warranty. Eventually the logo stopped showing and it was nothing. So I gave the support a try... Palm refuses to do anything about it. Their forums weren't helping or their email or phone support. What a piece of junk. Well I sold it on eBay(even though i said it didn't turn on) and some stupid people still bought it for $75. I used that money to buy a Dell Axim X30, 312 MHZ Pocket PC. Same price, $199 and I have had it for 5 months and it still works perfectly. I have heard nothing bad about it. I traded that one up for one with Wi-Fi/Bluetooth intergrated and now its extremely functional. Until Palm gets their act together, go with the Pocket PCs. A little more expensive but better, more reliable, and more functions. I also plan on filing a lawsuit against Palm.THERE IS A REASON IT HAS A 90 DAY WARRANTY.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Don't think it won't happen to you, it will", "unixReviewTime": 1090972800, "reviewTime": "07 28, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "AUXFJBUE4BK22", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "Carlos", "helpful": [20, 20], "reviewText": "My Palm Tungsten-E is about 1.5 years old. This is my experience with it.The battery run time has never been good but now it dies after 3 days even if I don't turn it on. The clock looses its time too and needs to be reset when it dies. It needs to be plugged in and a reset done (push the reset button in the back) before it starts again.It also had to go for repair during the first 3-4 months. They also charged me ~$40-$50 for the first repair, otherwise I would have had to wait several weeks to get it back. The replacement unit they sent back was warped and the screw heads were partially stripped. The case and pen don't fit right.I can't even find any place that will sell a spare battery for this thing.The touch screen also has stopped responding on the right side. It's not the calibration. It does not help. It's probably because the case is warped and applies pressure on that side.Sync software is poor and needs to be reinstalled often. It tends to duplicate files lose fields and make of mess of my phone book. It adds more work that its worth. Both palm desktop and outlook sync are unreliable. (Latest version of win-XP & palm). It's also poor with mac sync.Maybe I will switch to a pocket windows machine with replaceable battery. Or better yet, I'll go to paper phone books, it saves time and it does not loose data.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Problems from day 1.", "unixReviewTime": 1107907200, "reviewTime": "02 9, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2FKP0GJ184DYI", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "Connecticut Cowboy \"mgnyc\"", "helpful": [11, 12], "reviewText": "I've been using Palms for years, but I have had nothing buy problems with the Tungsten E.  I have never been able to get this PDA to hotsync, except when software was first installed.  I don't have time to reinstall the software everytime I want to sync.Basically, Palm was ahead of its time.  Then time caught up and passed Palm by.  Simplicity was Palm's virtue, but each additional feature has only caused Palm to lose reliability and usability.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Avoid", "unixReviewTime": 1130198400, "reviewTime": "10 25, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A4AWIXZ51GXMY", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "Crunch Solutions", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "If you're thinking of upgrading from an older black &amp; white Palm, treat yourself. I had a much loved Palm 105 that was perfectly adequate. However, the Tungsten E is a joy. The display is superb and the range of features extraordinary for the price.My only gripe and it's a minor one is that if you're used to six weeks' life from AAA batteries, you have to get used to a weekly recharge of the lithium battery. Palm claim that 'average' usage is 20 minutes/day. If you use it for much longer than 20 minutes, you'll be recharging frequently.Palm really do have a winner here.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Treat yourself!", "unixReviewTime": 1068076800, "reviewTime": "11 6, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "AB5DI1U9R11XL", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "D. Flores", "helpful": [15, 17], "reviewText": "Dollar for dollar this is the best unit that Palm has produced. It's got a beutiful hi-res screen. It's got 32 megs of internal memory (finally an adequate amount in a Palm OS device!). It's got a speedy 126mhz processor. It plays MP3s at a nice volume with headphones (it will even play them out of the built-in speaker, which is cute in an Alvin &amp; the Chipmonks sort of way, but not that useful)  And it's got that wonderful slim, form factor for which Palm branded devices are famous. Yeah, Palm and Sony produce machines with bigger screens and faster processors, but the premium you pay just doesn't justify the purchase. And honestly, the form factor of the Palm Tungsten T3 and the sony Cli&eacute; UX50 includes too many compromises. I mean, what's up with Palm's obsession with silly sliding mechanisms? And what's up with Sony's landscape only orientation on the UX50 (not to mention seven-oh-oh samolean pricetag!) or those other over-laden bricks that feel more like small notebooks than PDAs. At two C-notes, the Tungsten E is cheap enough that, even if you do become seduced by the next great model coming down the pipe in a year or two, you won't feel guilty about having bought this one in the meantime.So go for it. This Palm rox my world!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best Palm yet", "unixReviewTime": 1066176000, "reviewTime": "10 15, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "AHNHLGKIZ2N3B", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "D. R. Jeanclerc \"Reader, Listener & Obsessive...", "helpful": [18, 20], "reviewText": "When it was first introduced, the Palm Tungsten E was marketed as an affordable treasure trove of applications - Word, Excel, MP3, Acrobat, photos, movies, etc.  With a color display and a price tag under $200, it seemed to have it all.  It does delivery nicely on all of that promise.  Unfortunately, Palm handicapped the E with one inexplicable design flaw that outweighs all of its upside - they somehow failed to include the ironically-named \"universal connector\" for recharging and syncing the unit.  Instead, it comes with two separate jacks on its underside:  one mini-USB for data sync and one AC adapter plug, leaving you faced with an unnecessary clutter of cords crossing your desk.In the beginning, I wanted to give the E every chance I could based on its functionality, and so I was lenient on this design oddity.  Still, the inconvenience eventually made me hate using it.  The plug design basically forces you into a choice between two very imperfect options - (a) threading the cords to the front of your desktop somehow so that you can have it right-side-up and still use it while plugged in, or (b) putting the cords behind the desk where they belong with the others and then suffering with an upside-down Palm.  With option (a), the relatively short cords and large jacks also put the unit at high risk of being knocked or dragged off of the desk.  With option (b), even syncing became a chore - the lack of a cradle button to trigger a sync means that you have to power up the unit and kick it off via on-screen icons, all while looking at it upside-down or else yanking a bunch of messy excess cord onto your desk.Still, I wanted to make the most of the E's robust bundle of applications, and for its low price, I knew not to expect that everything would come standard in the box.  So I went shopping for a proper charging cradle, only to find that no such accessory for the E exists.  In fact, Palm doesn't even sell replacements for its individual sync/charging cables at all.  So, aside from all routine inconvenience while using it, this model also comes with the incredible risk that if either cord is every lost or damaged, you become the proud owner of a sleek-looking $200 paperweight.  It's possible by now that some third-party company has begun creating unlicensed cords that claim to be compatible, but that's hardly comforting in the face of Palm's obvious lack of support for its own product line.And given the weak battery that the E is equipped with (and it can't be upgraded), you'll have it connected to the charging cord quite a bit.  When I was using it religiously every workday, I needed to recharge it each night.  What a disappointment this setup is compared to, for example, the Tungsten T3 - it uses the universal connector to dock with a cradle that continuously charges it and syncs it on command while keeping it at an ideal ergonomic angle for use/reference while sitting on your desktop.  And since its using the universal connector, you're able to accessorize it further, i.e. buy a separate docking cradle for the office, a charger for the road, etc.  The T3 setup makes perfect sense, the E setup is shamefully inadequate - it's as if Palm wants E owners to never forget that they purchased \"the cheap one\".In conclusion, its advertised plusses are very real, but go for the Tungsten E at your own risk.  Its greatest failure is that there is no obvious reason why it couldn't have lived up to its potential as the ultimate PDA.  The more you live with its one Achilles' Heel, the more you'll wish you'd spent a little extra on the T3.PROSVersatility and quality of applications that it runs (MS Office, Acrobat, MP3, photos, movies, etc.)Brilliant color displayCONSLack of universal connector makes everyday use/charging/syncing more and more irritatingLack of Palm support for the E, as in no replacement cords available, makes it a risky option", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Lack of \"Universal\" Connector Ruins an Otherwise Great PDA", "unixReviewTime": 1119312000, "reviewTime": "06 21, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3PP444YA0Z0KA", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "Eric Lozauskas", "helpful": [380, 392], "reviewText": "As some of you might know, I always speak the truth, so here is my honest review of this Palm Tungsten E.I purchased this item to replace my old Palm m515 (which had originally replaced my first palm, a Palm V).  As you probably guessed, I have to have a small handheld.  In my opinion, if it isn't small enough, you won't bring it with you and actually use the thing.  I also have been a fond lover of this form factor (very thin and light with double-stylus holder, etc.Well, they finally listened to us complaining of the previous left side &quot;flap holder&quot; and made the flap slide in from the bottom of the palm as apposed to the top.  This was a large problem -- I've had my old palms slide out on me at random by holding it from the flap.The good:  This palm has an astounding display!  It literally feels as though you have a small computer in your hand as other reviewers have mentioned.  Quality all the way here.  Large enough to be easily readable, and a brightness level adjustment that gets quite bright!  The buttons on the bottom &quot;mostly&quot; have a positive feedback.  I'll discuss the bottom lack of a universal connector last.  This palm accepts SD cards and has a headphone jack on the top.  Processor is incredible compared to my old m515 and especially the V.  Power button is recessed so you can't &quot;accidentally&quot; turn it on as easily as past models.Honestly, I must mention that I've tried to purchase quite a few MP3 players out there and they have all had quirky problems.  I didn't even expect to use the mp3 capabilities of this PDA but look at that -- it works/sounds better than anything I've purchased for the same cost that was dedicated to MP3s!!!  I am truly astounded by it.The bad/interesting:  As I mentioned above, the buttons mostly have tactile feedback, but that square ring of a button-pad in the center is a bit odd because pushing down requires quite a bit more force than up and does not result in a &quot;click&quot;.  Hrm...I guess it just sort of happened because of the small size of this unit (4.6 oz folks - yes you heard me right!).Finally, that bottom connector issue that has quite an argument brewing.  This is the only Tungsten lacking a universal connector on the bottom which means you can't use all those old accessories which utilized that port.  Lets look at some other aspects here....It uses a standard USB cable which means you're not restricted to palm to purchase additional hotsync cables.  Also, it has a small power cord which plugs in the other port on the bottom.  This I think is wonderful because I can actually take the power cable/charger and charge it on vacation or wherever I am.  No longer do I have to lug around the cradle in my suitcase!Finally, the iffy:  This palm looks like metal - but alas is made out of plastic.  Rest assured it is extremely sturdy plastic -- no creaking or anything Handspring-like and the plastic is actually the color you see -- that silver color.  So we shouldn't have to worry about any coating chipping off and revealing an ugly color underneath.So far, I'm extremely pleased with this palm, and though it has these minute setbacks, I still think it is a wonderful unit especially for the price.  I was able to keep my small form factor and get a wonderful display and an overall great feature set.  Finally - I must mention that this comes with a LOT of software.  Documents to go Ver 6 which allows you to read/write word, excel and powerpoint docs, an mp3 player by realone, photo viewer, and the list goes on and on.  Add that to their new personal manager programs like Contact and Calendar and you have a winning combination!  If you're on the borderline between this and the new T3 - well, I chose it because I'm not all that trusting of the slider mechanism.  I like a palm that sits there with the least amount of moving parts/possible failure points.  Hopefully this review helps out in your search for the perfect PDA.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Overall, a wonderful product!", "unixReviewTime": 1065830400, "reviewTime": "10 11, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A2ZCXIZHS191TG", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "Fred Anonymous Smith", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "My wife and I each have a Tungsten E, both purchased almost one year ago and used almost daily. We've had none of the problems reported by the other reviewers here. Each T|E has performed flawlessly. No problems with the buttons, display, software, or anything else. I haven't found any software, other than some really old stuff, that was incompatible (and that old software seems incompatible with all recent Palms). We've had no problems with the Palm Desktop software (WinXP) and no problems synchronizing with our desktops. Further, we like the new version of Graffiti. In other words, we have almost nothing to complain about.However, it is safe to say the batteries run down fairly quickly between charges. This has not been a major issue for us. While we use our PDA's many times each day, each use is only for a few moments. However, there have been times when we wanted to use them for longer periods of time without being plugged in. We solved this by purchasing inexpensive external AA battery packs, offering eight to nine hours of almost continious use without a recharge (search on the internet for \"Tungsten E battery pack\").A friend's T|E once had many of the same problems reported here (crashes, freezes, blank screens, reset issues, and so on). His problem was traced to the installation of hacks and software which radically changed the function or appearance of the operating system. Once most of these were removed, his TE immediately performed much more reliably. Perhaps this is a solution for some of the other reviewers here.Note: I wrote the above in October, 2004. We're still using those same T|E's today (May 2005), still with no problems whatsoever.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Two T|E's, One Year, No Problems Whatsoever!", "unixReviewTime": 1098921600, "reviewTime": "10 28, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A1VFIY34F94XHY", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "James Turner", "helpful": [11, 12], "reviewText": "This is a great little unit!! Coming from an old but appreciated Handspring Visor, the T|E is a great improvement.I recently bought a Dell Axim X5 but returned it after a week,as I was dissatisfied by both the Pocket PC OS and the bulkiness of the unit. After that, I knew I wanted to stick with the Palm OS and get something small. So I went straight out and bought the T|E at the first place I could find that had it and felt so much better about my purchase. The size and build quality of the T|E is great and the screen is gorgeous. Everyone marvels at it, and a few people are quite jealous.The lack of Palm's &quot;Universal&quot; Connector is very disappointing and almost dings them a full star. But I knew that going in, and everything else is so nice at the price, so I'll stick with a five-star rating.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Palm Tungsten E is great!!!!!", "unixReviewTime": 1070064000, "reviewTime": "11 29, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A3OBP99ZV5TG6C", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "Jay", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "I work for the local Police Department and have used the Palm Vx since it came out.  I had looked at other PDA's when my 2nd Vx started going south, but just did not see the need for all the extra doodads.  The Tungsten E plays a little music, shows a few pictures and does them all acceptably well for a PDA.  What it excels at is keeping the information I need at my fingertips.  I use the thing on a daily basis and in all kinds of conditions.  I have never had it go down from Humidity, heat, cold etc....  (I wish my Nokia phone were this dependable.... :))I keep my department's general orders, municipal codes and an extensive phone list.  I have several spreadsheets and even a few pictures of wanted suspects (In addition to the requisite family pics)  My calendar is ridiculously full.  I strained the capacity of the Vx, but have not even touched it here!  I have managed to switch over without ever picking up a manual - the only learning curve involved was the writing recognition has been simplified.I highly recommend the Tungsten E - for folks who want what a PDA is essentially designed for.... an information storage device.  There are other PDA's that have cameras, better video or music.. . but then the devices designed for those purposes are SOOOOOO much better, why???? Of course, I do intend to get Scrabble and the Dictionary card add-ons, and maybe one so I can bore folks with pics of my kids from infancy on!!!!My one wish is that there was still a scroll rocker  (Of course... maybe there is and I just never read the manual :))Hope this was helpful.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Durable little workhorse", "unixReviewTime": 1095811200, "reviewTime": "09 22, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "ABH9D1TEOJ56E", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "jemaerca", "helpful": [38, 40], "reviewText": "one of palm's newest PDAs is the tungsten E. in my opinion, this palm is the sweet spot in palm's latest releases.  for the price, it's an impressive package.pros:- bright, transflective 320x320 display is easy to read even in daylight.- 126-MHz CPU and 32MB of RAM (28MB are available to the user).- MP3 and multimedia support.- small and light at 4.5 by 3.1 by 0.5\" and 4.6oz.- strong software bundle - now includes the new Contacts and Calendar applications (with Contacts, you can finally store multiple addresses for each contact)- USB support.- expansion slot supports SD, SDIO, MMC.- impressive value - at this price point, no other PDA brings the complete package the tungsten E has.cons:- no built-in Wi-Fi (although you can use the expansion slot for an add-in).- battery not replaceable.this is a solid PDA and an incredible value.  as mentioned above, you can use the expansion slot to install a Wi-Fi add-in so there's a work-around for this limitation. if you MUST have built-in Wi-Fi, consider the tungsten C. another upgrade is the tungsten T3 if you want a bigger, hi-res screen and bluetooth.i hope this helps you in your buying decision. peace.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "incredible value, strong", "unixReviewTime": 1065312000, "reviewTime": "10 5, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "AE68I04K30VHS", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "Ken Walsh", "helpful": [15, 19], "reviewText": "Not to repeat thousands of others experience, but straight out of the box my Tungsten E won't hold a charge more or less at all.  Charge it full, let it sit on the desk turned OFF for four days and it's lost everything.  Genuine piece of garbage.  As others have said customer service is non-existant.NEVER BY A PRODUCT FROM PALM. PERIOD.Follow that advice and you can't go wrong.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Absolute garbage...", "unixReviewTime": 1111363200, "reviewTime": "03 21, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1IVAVV6VG0D1Q", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "Matthew", "helpful": [17, 17], "reviewText": "January 2005: I purchased this PDA to replace my now dead CLIE T615C which was great. The first one I bought (from Buy.com) had the alarm problem that others have mentioned. I called Palm support which is now outsourced and horrible who told me to do a hard reset and try again...same issue after the hard reset after which time I sent the PDA back to Buy.com. I bought my second one from Palmone.com. I figured I'd be better off buying it from \"the source\" directly. Same alarm problem, hard reset and all. The alarm only sounds a fraction of the tone so you can easily miss it. The alarm only works properly when the unit is turned ON. I have several peers with the Tungsten E and EVERY ONE OF THEM HAVE THIS ISSUE. I emailed Palm support with this info, figured maybe there is a firmware or OS update. Their response?....do another hard reset and if it does not work return it for another. %()&^%$!!!!! Not this time!All in all, aside from this, I actually happen to like this PDA. OS 5.2.1 is a nice upgrade from OS 4 from my Clie. The screen resolution is excellent. The MP3 player sounds great with nice headphones or buds. I have NOT had the \"noisy screen\" issue.The lack of a cradle and 2 seperate cords for charge and sync I consider only a minor inconvenience. I use a Krusell leather case so I don't worry about the fingerprints others complain about.Oh, and for the record I downloaded a program called \"emerald sounds\" from freewarepalm.com. This replaces the system MIDI sounds so you can put a louder and longer tone into the alarm so you are more likely to hear it.One more thing; if I had to rate Palms support now I would give it ONE STAR and that would be generous. It has gone down the tubes since the days of my Palm IIIxe!! But then again, Sony's PDA support is/was notiously poor as well.In the end, the Tungsten E is a nice PDA for $190-$200. I wonder if the more expensive Tunsten or Zire's have the alarm issue???UPDATE April 2006. My PDA still works nicely but over the long haul 2 notable issues: Battery life is poor, need to charge every 2 days (may not be THAT bad after 15 months!) Also the screen NOISE, oh yes it is there BIG TIME. But then again, now that I am aware of it I hear it on NEW Tunsten E2's in the stores!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Nice PDA, BUT..........", "unixReviewTime": 1106265600, "reviewTime": "01 21, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1NPKJKOQ7KOE6", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "Scooter \"Go Giants!\"", "helpful": [31, 32], "reviewText": "My Qualifications to Judge: Long-time user of Palm V; short time user of Sony Clie SJ-20Positive Aspects of the Tungsten E:Amazing screen; you can actually display color .jpgs on this PDA that rival the quality of a new SVGA monitor.  I find that utterly amazing.  You certainly wouldn't do that on an old Palm V, and the B&amp;W Clie was pretty limited in this regard.Great for Audible Books: I use the built-in MP3 player mainly for recorded books, as opposed to music.  I've listened to a few music tracks and thought they sounded nice, though I'm definitely not an expert on MP3 players.  It is great for audiobooks, however.  The sound quality is great and with a big enough SD card, you can fit several volumes.PalmOS 5 is very nice.  The Clie had 4, which wasn't much of an improvement on OS 3Performance.  The Tungsten E has the response time I was used to with the Palm V, even when accessing the memory card.  The Clie was unacceptably slow in this regard.Software: The included Outlook conduit is the best I've seen yet; better than the Palm V version or the more recent Clie version.  Works every time and is very fast.The Docs to Go includes Word, Excel and PowerPoint, which can be handy.  The Clie only included Word and ExcelNeeds Improvement Aspects:Boy I miss the docking station.  Included with the Palm V; an extra accessory for the Clie; TOTALLY NOT AVAILABLE for this Palm, and probably never will be.  The separate power and mini-usb would be very difficult to blend into a decent dock.  I made a sort of a dock in my wood shop; a place to hold the Tungsten and thread the cords out the back, but it is a far cry from a proper dock.Covers.  Like some other reviewers, I found that the included flip cover scratched the top (where the logos are) of my Tungsten within 2 weeks.  The hard cover available from Palm has also been a bit of a disappointment.  The Palm rattles around a bit, so I had to add some insulation tape.The finish.  Again, like some other reviewers, I fear that this shiny paint job is not going to age well.Battery Status: I would love to have some idea how much battery life is left.Pretty funny buying a high-tech gadget in 2004 and having to resort to foam tape and the wood shop to make the product fully functional.Conclusion:  I would buy this product again; I don't think there is a better alternative in this price range.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "It's Not Perfect, But It's Still Pretty Amazing", "unixReviewTime": 1073779200, "reviewTime": "01 11, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "ACGTYE5R2EXVF", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "S. Gerber \"samthewebman\"", "helpful": [30, 31], "reviewText": "I gave up my 6 year old Personal Palmpilot in favor of this beauty. I've found it has the best function for the price. Better than the ZIRE 71 if you give up the camera. Has 32MB of memory and comes with Documents to Go to process Excel and Word files. ZIRE doesn't have these two things. Also should mention that there's a terrific calculator included on the CD called Power One. Most amazing software I've seen for a calculator. It supports and provides templates for Loan Calculations, Metric Conversions, Math functions and many more.In all, this is definitely a 5-star product. Enough has been said here that I won't share my enthusiasm with you. I should say that the protective front cover that came with mine does not scratch my case, as has been mentioned frequently here. I was given the $40 Palm metal case as a gift and kept it. It's very protective but does interfere completely with the power button, hot-synch connection and charger input ... strong negatives.To the matter at hand, the title of this review.It is not well known that the Tungsten E and one other new T model have introduced a broadening of the fields available in the Address Book PIM application, now called \"Contacts\". This application in modeled after Msoft Outlook and has serious drawbacks, IF NOT UNDERSTOOD BY THE USER.Many fields have been added which are supported by the handheld and the desktop which will cause endless grief if you need to interface the Tungsten E later to another application by exporting data.Briefly, there are now 9 Custom fields (not 4), 7 Phone fields (not 5), 3 sets of Address fields (not 1), 2 IM fields (for Chat IDs), a Web Site field, and a Birthday field. In all, there are 21 extra fields compared to most other Palms.Generally speaking, this is very good and could be a compelling reason to buy the Tungsten E. However, here's what I've learned:My first 5 phone fields have default labels of WORK, HOME, MOBILE, E-MAIL and MAIN. While these can be changed as you enter new contacts, they are very poor choices for all users. WORK and MAIN are largely redundant, FAX is missing completely, and E-MAIL should be last because it's not a phone. This forces you to do a lot of tapping to enter the proper labels for each new contact. All earlier Palms had these default labels: WORK, HOME, FAX, OTHER and E-MAIL, a very sensible choice.Nothing can be done about this \"bug\" from my dialogues with Palm and I have yet to discover a fix on the Google message boards.This becomes critical to you from a productivity point of view and disastrous if you try to export your phone data to another program. Take this message with you: Whatever you choose to call your phone labels, be consistent from one Contact to another or your fields will export improperly. Palm's export will export all these fields in the physical order entered, top to bottom, REGARDLESS OF YOUR FIELD LABELS! So you must be consistent or you will never export them as you intend.Similarly, the 2 extra sets of address fields are called \"H\" and \"O\", in addition to the first set called \"W\". Please don't think that the Desktop software will honor these labels. The first one you enter will be exported as \"WORK\", the second as \"HOME\", etc., NO MATTER WHAT LABEL YOU GIVE IT! So ... if you ever plan to export a Contact's Home Address to Outlook or any other program, you must enter some dummy information as \"Work\" and then enter the Home information. The Palm sees these three sets of addresses as Address 1, 2, and 3, NOT Work, Home, Other. So if you enter Home first, then Work, you're headed for trouble if you Export.Finally, the Export dialogue is equally screwed up by showing the phone field names in a different order than above. My message here is to ignore those label names because they will Export in the same order you've entered them, regardless of what the dialogue says. This has caused me endless grief until I understood what was happening.These flaws will not affect many of you but they are well worthy of note and understanding. Palm surely must fix this one day, but that's the way it is now.Otherwise, this is a 5-star offering, despite this serious deficiency which can be worked around now that you understand it.Enjoy your Tungsten E if you take the plunge.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "WATCH OUT FOR THE NEW CONTACTS (Address Book) FIELDS!", "unixReviewTime": 1072656000, "reviewTime": "12 29, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "A1JJOV69MAU2J2", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "Steven Dennis", "helpful": [60, 64], "reviewText": "At last, Palm gets it right -- A high quality, low price PDA with all the features you need, and none you don't. This is quite simply, a beautiful piece of engineering, and whether you are new to PDAs or upgrading, you will not be disappointed...For a bargain price of 200 smackers, Palm provides the following key features:1) A top-notch, large, hi-res screen (check it out in a store first). Many previous Palms have skimped on the screen -- a big no-no in my book. I'd much rather have a slower processor than an unreadable (m505) or too-small screen (Zire, m100). Pointing and clicking on a Palm is hard enough without having a small, dark screen to boot.2) Generous 32 MB Ram. Finally, Palm stops skimping on this important area! It's not enough to make you ditch your iPod, but you can play a few tunes, look at a few pictures, transfer some files. This is a big improvement from the bad-old 8 MB days, which is Okay for contacts but worthless for anything else.3) Rechargeable lithium polymer. Top notch. No skimping, no muss, no fuss.4) Great design. Clean, simple, portable, shirt-pocketable. No keyboard, but I've never been a thumbpad fan.5) MS Office functions included -- Word, Outlook, Powerpoint. Why you would use them, however, is a bit bizarre to me. Who wants to spend the time coding in a Powerpoint presentation with a stylus? Yet, if this is important to you, it's here. And having your email with you can be a plus...As for what you won't get: There is no phone, no camera, no thumbpad, no Bluetooth, no WiFi. This is close to a pure PDA, though it can display pictures and double as a poor-man's MP3 player. That's what I was looking for.Here's a basic product guide:New Palm Zire -- Bargain basement model with 7.2 MB of Ram, upgraded from hobbled 2 MB original model. About 100 smackers. Often offered free as bundle deals with new computers. Good starter model for the price. Includes rechargeable battery. Memory can not be upgraded. Horribly skimpy black-on-grey screen.Tungsten T2, etc.: Deluxe models that feature, in some cases, larger screens/Bluetooth wireless connectivity/thumbpads with dropdown graffiti screens. All unnecessary features in my book, especially given their much higher prices.Clie models (SJ30, etc.) recently have owned the mid-range of the Palm product line, providing color screens, style and multimedia features for less than Palm. But no longer. The Clie models simply can not compete with this new Palm -- they feel and look clunky in comparison and generally feature smaller, dimmer screens. And the upper-echelon Clie models get very expensive.Sony models also have a reputation for less-stellar customer service. (I've had excellent service from Palm.)The Treo models from Handspring/Palm should be considered if you are a thumbpad fan, or if you want your PDA to also be your phone. But let's face it, how many people can afford spending four hundred smackers on a PDA?BTW, when comparing, I've found you can generally ignore the speed of the processor. For most Palm functions, the reaction time is near instantaneous, or at most a second or two lag.As for PocketPCs, some of them are now very attractively priced and are worth checking out. I've yet to use one extensively, so I'll stick to what I know -- Palms are simple, easy to use and almost guaranteed to improve your productivity. It's like having a backup for your brain. And who doesn't need that?Enjoy!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "This is the one you want...", "unixReviewTime": 1065484800, "reviewTime": "10 7, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "AGHZXQL9F94T9", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "superman2k3 \"superman2k3\"", "helpful": [116, 121], "reviewText": "T|E is an excellent device with minor problems. For the price its a bargain and will ensure Palm's market share stays high.Pro's,1. Its a Palm, with the latest version of Palm OS.2. Looks good and feels solid in hand.3. Superb screen and extremely clear.4. mp3 playback is very good.5. Uses standard mini USB jack, not propreitary Palm connector.6. Fast performance. Don't compare raw MHz between PDA's, this one's faster than 400MHz PPC's.7. About 28MB is available memory, which is a lot for a Palm.8. Good software bundle and stable OS.9. Speaker is - suprisingly - good at playing mp3's (64kpbs sounds great).10. Flip lid and a screen protector are in the box. (I don't buy a PDA without flip)11. Stylus is superb, thick/heavy/shinning metal.Con's,1. Down button is hard to press, ironically that's the most used button on T|E. The 5 way navigator is poorly designed and cheap plastic.2. Size is bigger than some other handhelds like Clie SJ20.3. Case is slippery and tough to keep clean.4. Thread on included flip cover scratches T|E at the top easily.5. Battery life is just like Pocket PC's, needs charging frequently.6. Included charger is not a world charger and is bulky.7. No bluetooth or Wifi but atleast it has SDIO slot (poor Clie fans have to put up with propreitary memory stink slot).8. Weak alarm sounds (think this can be fixed?) and no vibrate only mode.9. Packaging in plastic box is tough to open and not eco friendly.10. Battery is not user replaceable. (dead Palm after 2 years?)Most of the minor issues with T|E will go away if you spend double and get a T|T3. Overall this is a great Palm at affordable price. Thanks Palm!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Thanks Palm!", "unixReviewTime": 1065744000, "reviewTime": "10 10, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "AXMM1MSSG6S3C", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "Thomas Reiter", "helpful": [27, 36], "reviewText": "The functionality of the Tungsten E is fine, a four or maybe five star rating, but I have given these devices a poor rating because they are utterly undependable.  I have had two Tungsten E's in the last year and both have mysteriously simply stopped working within about 6 months.  I didn't drop them, didn't mistreat them, just one day they refused to turn on, reset, or anything else (and no, it was not an uncharged battery).  These Tungsten E's are merely the latest in a series of probably a dozen Palms that I have had over the last several years, EVERY ONE OF WHICH DIED in a similar manner, some after two months, with none lasting more than 13-14 months of light use.After my past experience with Palms, I wised up and bought my Tungsten E with an extended warranty, but the bottom line is that at this point I don't ever want another Tungsten E or any other Palm device, period, even for free.  I don't want another piece of junk that consistently craps out after a few months.I have tried to stay with the Palm OS and away from the Windows stuff, but have finally given up.  Farewell Palm!", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Completely Undependable", "unixReviewTime": 1097971200, "reviewTime": "10 17, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A21YYTXIXI7PP0", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "thy_avatar \"Maybe we should all do what&#8217...", "helpful": [14, 17], "reviewText": "This was my first pda, I really enjoyed it until it died one day at work, i punched some numbers into it, scribbled a note about a product i needed to look for, then when i went to use it again about 30 minutes later, it would not respond at all. I made 2 mistakes when buying this pda, 1. buying it from circuit city, 2.buying the 'comprehensive coverage full replacement warranty'. I was told when I bought the pda that if I bought the 'comprehensive coverage full replacement warranty' my pda would be replaced if ANYTHING happened to it for 2 years. When I called  in August 2005 about having my pda replaced I was told I would be getting a new one right away, instead I got a box to send mine to them to fix it. Then they sent it back-still non-working and in worse physical condition that when I sent it off. Their website to check the status of repairs said my repair was completed, the box my pda came back in says 'Factory Reconditioned' but my pda still does not work-AND THEY PUT DINGS AND SCRATCHES IN THE SIDES OF THE OUTER CASE!!!! They claim my pda had water damage and that it isn't covered under my warranty....I work in a retail store...INSIDE OF A BUILDING...and my pda was in a protective case on my belt. Circuit city also refuses to explain how the outer case was damaged. I have called and emailed constantly with then, until they stopped responding as of 11/27/05, I have been told several time I would be getting a replacement or a gift card so I can buy a new pda, but then the next person I talk to lies and says I was NEVER told that and that they don't do that. Supposedly the motherboard needs to be replaced in it, which can be found online for $39-$59, but they can't be bothered to spend that to repair it under that warranty I bought, which they now say is not a real warranty, and that I bought another kind of warranty, which does not actually cover anything, other than a manufacturer's defect, that is covered by the manufacturer original warranty. Don't buy from circuit city, and don't be fooled into buying their \"extended coverage\" or \"extended warranty\", they won't honor the warranty they sell.This review may only legally be shown directly on Amazon.com", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "my first pda-and horrible experience with circuit city", "unixReviewTime": 1135814400, "reviewTime": "12 29, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2FTCH80DSYS7L", "asin": "B0000DB4D1", "reviewerName": "W. ALLEN \"overeducated and under-learned\"", "helpful": [18, 19], "reviewText": "Finally, Palm has produced the perfect PDA, the Tungsten E.  I loved my first Palm, an m500 because the battery lasted a week.  Then, I liked the bright color screen of my Tungsten T, but I wanted more memory.  When the under $199 Tungsten E came along and another doctor in the hospital showed it to me, I had to try it.  The battery lasts and lasts and lasts.  The hotsync is so much faster and it uses a generic USB cable instead of the $50 palm cradle.  I love that because I sync at work and home.  The screen is so sharp.  I carry seven big medical textbooks on my 256meg expansion card, as well as many MP3's.  The Tungsten E opens those files just as fast as the files in main memory.  And, for the first time, I figured out how to download all my Yahoo email into the device each time I hotsync.  I also download about 3megs from Avantgo each sync and it takes about 60 seconds. Finally, Palm Pilot Perfection.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Palm Pilot Perfection at last.", "unixReviewTime": 1066953600, "reviewTime": "10 24, 2003"}
{"reviewerID": "AXKI4FBLRF42D", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "&#34;Sam&#34; Twain \"Samuca\"", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "Before ordering this headphone I read very carefully previous reviews. The reviews I read were helpful, well written and I was stimulated to write my own. There were basically two groups of reviews, one being highly complimentary of the RS-120 and the other group complained about noise, hiss, and comfort. My own review falls in the first group. However I must say that noise and hiss can happen in some environments and are not necessarily a problem with the headphone. In fact, it is easy for me to induce noise/hiss when I approach the motor of the refrigerator or I approach the emitter from other electronic equipment. Noise/hiss are nightmares for engineers and sometimes there is not much that we can do to eliminate these problems in the immediate physical world that surrounds us. We need to troubleshoot to get the best location of the emitter in order to enjoy this remarkable set of headphones. And the price at Amazon was a real bargain.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Outstanding", "unixReviewTime": 1135209600, "reviewTime": "12 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2HIHB3PSTLSHJ", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "Apple Fan", "helpful": [33, 36], "reviewText": "I need to start out by saying that I am a huge Sennheiser fan and I believe they produce high quality products.I would have to say that these headphones are OK which is why I gave it three stars.  If you are in any way an audiophile these are not the headphones for you.  If you must have or really want a pair of wireless headphones these are the pair for you.  I tried these headphones with other wireless devices around and with no wireless devices around and I got the same results in both situations.  There is definitely a hiss in the background while you listen to these.  If you are watching a movie or TV it fine because the audio is really busy and so you don't notice the hiss but if you are listening to an audio book you definitely notice the hiss.  You can also hear the hiss when your are listening to music.  The sound quality is good but not great.  The bass is missing the mid's and trebles are OK.  I compared them side by side with other Sennheiser wired headphones and the sound is drastically better with wired headphones.  My final notes are if you absolutely must have wireless these are alright but if good quality sound is what you can't live without check out Sennheisers wonderful selection of wired headphones.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Perfect if wireless is more important than quality.", "unixReviewTime": 1110585600, "reviewTime": "03 12, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1L4UHJKA8Y9MM", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "arbekeal", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "The sound quality is very good, and its range is excellent.  However the construction and durability is way below average. I am afraid that if I don't handle it gently, it will break in my hands.  After awhile, the elastic head band starts to widen and begin to slip off my head.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Good sound, but cheesy construction", "unixReviewTime": 1171843200, "reviewTime": "02 19, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A22Q0MSTN76KHS", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "Avid Consumer", "helpful": [10, 15], "reviewText": "I loved the sound I heard with this headphones. It's superb.But it's too big to wear. Forget trying to wear while you are half lying in the bed at night and watch TV, which was the whole point of buying this headset so that no one is disturbed while you watch TV at night.Put you head against pillow and it will pop out of place. So I tried my recliner but same outcome.I guess it's fine if you are standing while you watch TV or if you are listening to music only while walking around your house.And if your head is of average size, you are out of luck, there is no way to tighten it, you bend down & it slides out of place. You need bigger head that will make it work fine I guess.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Great Sound but too big & unconfortable", "unixReviewTime": 1148515200, "reviewTime": "05 25, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2V1J3JT5OOZFO", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "Dragonwort Castle", "helpful": [40, 45], "reviewText": "Having some hearing loss I chose wireless headphones so my wife could enjoy TV at a reasonable volume.  This model was chosen due to the many rave reviews I have read and they were right-on.Extremely easy set-up to a TV, dish, DVD, VCR, headphones jack, or the \"Tape-Out\" RCA jacks of a receiver for hearing all components.  It comes with two gold adapters and all you would need.  Easy recharge by simply setting them on the attractive charging stand; it could not be easier.  Quick tuning with no interference, 3 channels, smooth volume adjustment.  Excellent range throughout my large house; steady sound to the kitchen, bathroom, through four rooms, out in the hot tub, and up and down the stairs.  High quality stereo sound.  Sturdy, well-made, comfortable weight and earpad design.  Two replaceable, easy-to-find, long lasting AA NiMH batteries that do not develop memory when recharging after short use.I am very happy with this investment, and my wife is, too.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent Choice", "unixReviewTime": 1115337600, "reviewTime": "05 6, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A201BT0O9E1CSN", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "D. Ticzon", "helpful": [24, 26], "reviewText": "After using my first pair for the past 6 months, I have decided to buy another set. I have my current set connected to my computer. The second set will be connected to my surround system so I can watch it with my 56 inch Samsung DLP TV.Now with two pairs, two people can watch the TV without waking up anyone else in the house.The range of these headphone are very far. I can go into my garage, and empty out the garbage without missing any of my music as I listen to my music collection on my iTunes.The base charges the batteries without any problems. I am still using the original batteries, and they still hold a good change so I can watch several movies with doing a rechange in between the movies.I'm sure you will love this headphone as much as I do. With the price, you can't go wrong.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I love them...I'm buying another pair!!!", "unixReviewTime": 1130630400, "reviewTime": "10 30, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AAGVCLVJPXRSJ", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "Dubbie", "helpful": [129, 140], "reviewText": "I have this habit of getting up early in the morning well before my wife and was getting tired of having to keep the volume down on the family room TV before she got up.  So I was just looking to use these headphones for TV use.  However, out of curiosity, I walked up stairs and clear across the other side of our house and outside of some occassional hissing, the signal was still strong.  Given my intended use, signal strength, clarity, ease of use and value were the primary critieria and the RS-120 has met or exceeded my expectations for each of these criteria.Just a few other comments: 1. The comments of how you need to retract the headphones to allow for charging is true, but this really isn't a big deal in my opinion, and is more than compensated for by the ease of the charging mechanism which simply requires you to set the headphones down on the base.  2. The receiver automatically turns on when it receives a signal and turns off after a few minutes if the signal stops.  This was a pain when I paused a movie for a while and had to turn the TV off and on again to get the headphones restarted.  I'm not sure why simply turning the movie back on didn't do the trick since it resulted in a new signal????  However, the upside of this set up is that you don't always have to remember to turn off the base unit on your own.  3. The headphones have it's own on/off switch.  4. There's a volume and fine tuning adjustment on the headphone that can easily be adjusted without taking them off your head.  The set up is very intuitive.  5. Contrary to some other reviews, the pair that I received came with two adapters that allowed for easy connection to a standard headphone outlet or computer.Bottom line, I did a lot of research before purchasing the RS-120 and I am still very satisfied.  Unless you want to spend a lot more money, everyone should feel comfortable with this option.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "I'm impressed!", "unixReviewTime": 1105488000, "reviewTime": "01 12, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AAR96VRAXSIZW", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "Espresso Fan", "helpful": [51, 57], "reviewText": "Very disappointed. My wife and I work different shifts. I purchased these so my wife can watch TV while I sleep. Unfortunately... after a few weeks of trying to live with them, we gave up and eventually sold for at a garage sale for $5.Actually... when the work, they work quite well. Yes, there are bursts (pops) of static as you move around while wearing them  (like you might hear on a AM radio station turning a thunder storm) but it wasn't a deal breaker for me. If you sit in a chair, or are in bed, and remain stationary the static pops don't occur. They do emit constant nonstop static but its very minimal (similar to the white noise you hear when wearing noise canceling headsets). Then again... if you are an audiophile it will drive you nuts! I wouldn't recommend them for music but can tolerate it for TV viewing.  For most people its notAnd issue. In fact, many don't even hear it (which explains the positive reviews)Actually... ignoring the static issue... they sound quite good.The problem is... they only work as long as there is sound being broadcasted! Once the sound source stops, you loose the signal connection between the headset and the transmitter and BANG...  LOUD STATIC!!!  Wow... it scares the crap out of you. You then must turn off the sound source (TV, receiver etc) and turn it back on to re-establish the connection to the headset.If the TV program you are watching goes silent (like during a quiet scene in a movie), or a few seconds of silence when the program goes to commercial break, or if listening to a quite passage in a piece of music... or the delay that occurs between music tracks on a record album... BANG ... The headset drops the connection to the transmitter and you get blasted with full volume static. This also happens if you hit the mute button for the TV! What a poor design!NET: Anytime, for any reason, that no sound is being transmitted... the headset thinks the TV or the signal to the transmitter has been shut off and the headset disconnects itself from the circuit. You then have to shut off the TV (or our sound source) and turn it back on to reset the headphones.I own several pairs of wired Sennheiser headphones and love them. Sennheiser makes awesome headphones but every once in a while, every manufacturer turns out a lemon and this unit happens to be Sennheisers.Do yourself a big favor and \"sort\" the Amazon reviews on this product by rating, then read all the One Star reviews. If you're smart... you'll buy yourself a long headset extension cord and avoid these all together.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Poor design due to auto shut off function. Disappointed!", "unixReviewTime": 1225843200, "reviewTime": "11 5, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A3FARCKMBHQZLY", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "givpilot", "helpful": [44, 48], "reviewText": "I've had a number of wireless headsets and this, by far, is the best.  The package contains all the possible connectors you would need, from RCA connectors for line out feeds, to standard and minature headset jacks.  The headset itself is solid, adjusts nicely and features controls for power on/off, volume and tuning.  I wish the earcups were of the recessed type, but other than that I am very pleased with the design.  As to performance, the RS-120 reproduces both speech and music cleanly with reasonable fidelity.  They won't compare with top of the line wired headsets (costing several times more), but that's not the design intention.  There is no hiss nor whistle and I have not detected any interference with other electronic devices in my home, including a six extension 900mHz phone system.  The range is impressive and it works well even a reasonable distance outside my home.  Highly recommended -- particularly at this price point.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent Headset!", "unixReviewTime": 1117411200, "reviewTime": "05 30, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A8WEXFRWX1ZHH", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "Goldengate \"Goldengate\"", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "Seems like the reviews on Amazon for this product fall in two categories - 5 star love-fests and 1-star complaints of reception.  I'm afraid this review falls into the latter category.  I'm using these headphones literally 8 feet from the receiver, and I hear distortion when I turn my head or just when something in the universe shifts and causes these headphones to make a high pitched noise.  Also, you have to get them balanced PERFECTLY on the cradle to charge - otherwise the little charging light goes out.The name implies German quality, but these are Made in China, and seem very cheap and poorly engineered.  Back to Amazon they go...", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Disappointing reception", "unixReviewTime": 1258848000, "reviewTime": "11 22, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A22I5NJMIAL4IB", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "G. Thomas \"GT\"", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "Like many have said these are great sounding headphones with good build quality. The ability to recharge them by just hanging them on the stand is a good idea and the sound quality is excellent for something this price.I think the equipment works on the 900mhz frequency and it is capable of picking up one half of a conversation on a 900mhz cordless telephone. Because the phone works on two similar but separate channels you won't get both sides of the conversation. I was surprised to hear the neighbors coming through the headset when I had my PC (the sound source) turned off. If you use a newer 2.4ghz or 5ghz phone this won't be an issue, but if you have a 900mhz baby monitor or cordless phone there might be some bleed through. Luckily there is a fine tune wheel on the side of the headset and you can lock your own signal in. Oh the whole very impressed and worth 5 stars at the price.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Headphones, and you can listen to the neighbors !", "unixReviewTime": 1156809600, "reviewTime": "08 29, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3TZ7WC1MN5R70", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "JBJ", "helpful": [42, 44], "reviewText": "I was impressed with the sound quality. The background hiss that others have complained about is virtually unnoticeable when the headset is properly tuned. The charger is as easy is placing the headphones on a stand, and the range is fantastic. I can listen from anywhere in my house or on my property.My set came with an RCA to mini adapter (look through your box carefully, it's taped to the underside of a cardboard insert), but the adapter has a very wide base which made it impossible to plug directly into a television that has a recessed headphone plug. An extension I had on hand resolved that problem.My biggest gripe is the insecure fit. I like snug fitting headphones, but these are very loose. Bending, stooping, or exercising results in frequent adjustments and constantly steadying to keep them on your head.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Great Sound Quality, Poor Fit", "unixReviewTime": 1136851200, "reviewTime": "01 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A27R1FLUS2KTIX", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "Jonathan K. Perkins", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I purchased these because I have hearing loss, and some shows are aggravatingly difficult for me to hear at ANY volume. This has been a good solution for me, and for the sanity of others in the home, too. In fact, I bought a second, much more expensive pair of earphones from a the same manufacturer (for use in a bother room), but the second pair was specifically made for assisting in TV viewing. These actually work better for me at less than half the price.Pros:*Comfortable*Rechargeable*Good sound*On-board volume controlCons:*Not adjustable for tightness, and they're a little loose on me*No on-board tone control (ideal for me would be to have a treble control)*Full-sized, so it make it difficult to rest the head on a pillow, etc.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Very good cordless headphones", "unixReviewTime": 1322265600, "reviewTime": "11 26, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A20T4PUI3U5C9R", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "Justin \"Justin\"", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "Look, these headphones have some nice features and some not so nice features.  I'll list them out for you, you make up your own mind.Positive features-Charging system- could not be easier.  Put headphones onto cradle.  Done.Reception - at first I was getting lots of interference, I had to change the baby monitor to channel B, now they are crystal clear.  I sit 4 feet from a Wireless access point in my office and there isn't any issue.Sound quality - they sound really good. Not spectaular, but good.Sound Volume - no issues for me here, I have them plugged into a home theater amp and the is plenty of volume left to be raised.Negative features-Comfort - the foam ear pieces are completly flat... not cupped like my Sennheiser HD590.  They sit ON your ear, not around them.Base Auto Shutoff-  Shuts the base off after a few minutes of no sound.Regarding this last point... this maybe would make sense if the headphones themselves shut off if no audio was detected for 3 minutes.  In this situation, the BASE shuts off, leaving the headphones to happily drain battery life.  Why ?  and Why such a short time period?  Are we saving THAT much power?  Could they have let the base sit.. maybe 5 minutes? 10 even?  Enough time to grab a drink of water or something?  I don't know about you, but for me, the beauty of watching TV and movies at home is the simple fact that I CAN pause, take a break, check on the kids, answer an e-mail, then go back to the entertainment.  But leave these alone for 3 minutes and you'll return to the lovely HISSS of the base shutting off while the headphones are still on.  Then it takes a few seconds once pressing play, to get sound again.  So now you have to rewind a few seconds, or just miss some dialogue.  Stupid stupid auto shutoff feature.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Good headphones, awful powersave feature", "unixReviewTime": 1274313600, "reviewTime": "05 20, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A3F3UARRAYEQH6", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "Kevin Woodward", "helpful": [853, 906], "reviewText": "When I first noticed this product on an Amazon best-seller list, my initial response was \"what a great idea.\" My second was \"sounds too good to be true.\" My third, after receiving my order and slipping these headphones on for the first time, was simply \"WOW!\"From the elegant, ergonamic design to the superb sound, the Sennheiser RS-120s can't be beat.The headphones come with three connection adapters, so they'll work with just about any TV, radio, stereo, DVD or game system. The base unit is small, inobtrusive and leaves a small enough footprint that you can find a spot for it just about anywhere.But the bottom line is they work -- and they work well. I have them set up in my bedroom and connected to my TV so I can unwind late at night without keeping my spouse awake. And on Saturday afternoons I can have the game on with the volume pumped up without a peep of complaint from her or the kids (and even if they did, I'd never hear them anyway :-) Of course, I can walk around and do chores, work at my desk, whatever, without missing a second of the action.The rechargable batteries are a great idea, too. No need to plug a cord in, simply place the headphones on the base unit metal rack to connect and charge effortlessly.My personal standard for consumer testing is whether or not I can rip open the package and get the product working without having to reference the instructions or manual. No worries there ... just plug and play ... and so intuitive it can't get any easier.Form, functionality and unbelievably cool, too. An unbeatable combination.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Super form, functionality -- and cool, too!", "unixReviewTime": 1107561600, "reviewTime": "02 5, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2YX49Y48M2CIE", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "Magic", "helpful": [10, 19], "reviewText": "My wife has a chronic illness that makes it difficult for her to go to sleep, so she usually watches TV until she drops off. I recently bought a Sony KDF50WE655 HDTV for the bedroom and bought these headphones for her to use so I can get some sleep. They don't work with the TV regardless of the base station channel selection. Although there is no mention in the Amazon listing for the headphones, the minimal user manual notes that they will not work if connected to some TVs. I tried it with extra long cables to get the transmitter away from the TV but still just static. I have tried it with my iPod and with a stand alone CD/DVD player and it works fine with them.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Works with iPod and CD player but not TV", "unixReviewTime": 1104019200, "reviewTime": "12 26, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "AW4E5435HJAAD", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "Mario", "helpful": [10, 11], "reviewText": "After reading other people's reviews I decided that the first thing I am going to do is test the complaints. So certainly, I tested the most popular complaint which is the auto-shut off feature, which turns off the transmitter base and leaves the listener with loud static. First of all, it is not loud static because these headphones DO NOT have the power to blast your ears as some reviewers commented. It does startle you a bit if you've been listening to silence for several minutes. But it does not blast your ears at all. One fact nobody mentioned is that the transmitter will wait for about 3 minutes of silence before it shuts off, which is plenty of time for most situations. Some reviewers made it seem like it would shut off immediately after it detected silence. Obviously, if you're going to be using these headsets with a computer it could be a problem. In that case, I would use a wired headset because when you are browsing the internet on a computer, you could spend a long time without hearing a sound. So think carefully what you're going to be using these headsets for before you buy them.Now for a bit of critique: In 2011, don't you think that technology is advanced enough to have implemented at least an auto-silence feature so that when the transmitter shuts off, it mutes the headphone? I mean FM auto-mute is an 1980's technology that even some car radios had back then to mute the FM static when no signal is being received. But anyway, on to my next item.Along with the auto-shut off feature many people hate (which I find to be no problem at all), some complained that after the transmitter shut off, if you started sending audio to the transmitter base again, the transmitter did not turn back on. This is totally false. If you spend a whole 3 minutes listening to dead air silence and the transmitter shuts off, when the transmitter begins to receive audio again it will turn back on automatically and the headset will receive the audio again. However, what I found disturbing is why doesn't the headset turn off after it stops receiving the signal from the transmitter? I waited a whole 5 minutes after the transmitter shut off listening to FM static and the headset never shut off. If I was a manufacturer of quality products, I would've considered that.Onto more positive things. For most listening occasions, these headsets will deliver crisp, full range audio with punchy bass. I was very pleased with the sound quality. However, if you are a DJ, don't expect these are going to be loud enough for you. I did find that you could easily make the bass distort as the headset itself is not powerful enough for me (I am a DJ). But for most occasions, (watching TV, listening to music in the quiet, etc.) these will do fine, though. What I found is you need to be careful with the audio input to the base. If it is too loud, you may get distortion (which is natural), and if it is not loud enough, you may hear some hissing in the background. So for those of you complaining about hissing, check to make sure your source is loud enough. I am using the headphone output from my home stereo so I can control the audio level going to the base. One nice thing though is that the base will automatically level the sound for you. If the incoming audio is low, the base will automatically amplify the audio level being transmitted to the headset. If you suddenly increase the audio level going to the base, it will automatically level it down to keep the same consistent level for you. Nice feature! I did not find that these feature dampened the dynamic range though, so your audio contrast between loud and soft sounds is nicely maintained.I can't comment much on the battery life as I just got these, but I will probably update on that in the future. But about the signal range, I find it to be very powerful. Very minor static when walking around which is normal for FM communications, but I can go to the backyard without a problem, but why would I need to do that when I can't see my TV from there?Another thing, I find wearing them for a long time to be no problem. They are very comfortable and the open design is not a problem at all. Some people complained about the open design allowing for ambient noise to contaminate the audio experience, but to be honest, once I was listening to something I could not notice any distracting ambient noise.One last thing, I find that the volume control and frequency tuning controls are hard to find by touch while wearing the headset. I guess I might get used to that in the future, but I always find myself struggling looking all around the area where I think they are with my hands until I find them. Same thing with the power switch. Other than that, these are fine headsets that I find most people will be pleased with. Since all I care is sound quality, comfort and durability, the minor flaws of this product is nothing to complain about so I gave it 5 stars. Very good for the price!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Better than expected....", "unixReviewTime": 1323043200, "reviewTime": "12 5, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A3SA70V1VVJNRQ", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "M", "helpful": [261, 281], "reviewText": "These headphones work great. They're Sennheisers and you usually can't go wrong with this brand.The headphone reproduces the full range of sounds very clearly and without distortion, if set up properly (I'll get to that).I've been able to walk around my home without experiencing too much distortion. Within the same room as the transmitter, the sound is really clear and robust. It's great not being tethered to one location or having to deal with accidentally yanking the cord out when moving around.Also, unlike my other enclosed-type headphones, the design allow for air to circulate freely. So your ears won't become uncomfortable warm during use. These headphones are very comfortable.As far as specs, you can get a good assessment of the product from reading the Amazon description so I won't go into that.For portable devices with a headphone jack, you simply have to purchase a \"2-RCA (female) to headphone jack (male 3.5mm plug) adapter\". Make sure the adapter is a \"stereo\" adapter versus a \"mono\" adapter. They look exactly the same, so beware. These adapters are pretty inexpensive.I was a little concerned about getting wireless headphones because of all the negative reviews I've read regarding sound quality, interference, etc.Sound quality and hissing can be minimized if you set up properly. Here's a quick \"What to do\":Portable Players (i.e. CD, MP3, Walkman, etc):1) If the device comes with an output other than the headphone jack, use it. This other output (line-out) is usually a jack that delivers a constant, high (i.e. loud) signal. Regardless of your headphone volume level, this jack will output at a constant, strong, loud signal. These line-out jacks are usually found on the back of some CD players.2) If the device only comes with a headphone jack, set the volume to max or near max. This is the setup I'm using. These headphones were bought primarily to be use at work, so I can listen to my iPod wirelessly.NOTE!!! If you're connected to a dedicated home amp/receivers/etc... DO NOT crank the volume all the way up or even remotely close to it. (The line out on your home amp/receiver will transmit a strong, clear signal regardless of the volume setting, if you're connected to the receiver/amp's line-out)The volume should be set high ONLY for smaller, portable devices that output less power such as an MP3 player or handheld portable CD player. You've been warned;-)Why set the signal coming from your unit as high as possible? It significantly reduces the background noise, since the signal being transmitted is strong. You won't need to turn up the volume on your headset as high since the signal being transmitted is strong. Yes, your portable music player will use up power faster, but who cares? Use a power adapter for your device.If your signal wasn't strong, you would need to increase the headset volume which also increases the level of background hiss. Try it out. I would speculate that a lot of these reviews, which complain of unbearable hissing, are a result of their device's volume level being set low.Hope this info helps. Enjoy the headphones... They're pretty nice.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Nice headphones... when set up properly.", "unixReviewTime": 1105488000, "reviewTime": "01 12, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2MWRRJSG67GRU", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "mil_nj_24 \"mil_nj_24\"", "helpful": [58, 67], "reviewText": "I bought these because I have Sennheiser HD212 headphones which I found to be great.Unfortunately the quality of these wireless phones is great only if you are in a very close proximity to the base. Additional noises, clicks etc. start to appear only 10 feet away, 25 feet away the quality is really bad (no walls or anything else in between, maximum volume fed into the base for higher signal level). Also the headphones do not feel comfortable on your head. I live in a area in a city with 4-5 story tall old appartment buildings around. Changing the channels does not help. While tuning the headphones you can also get to a phone conversations and other communications.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Almost useless", "unixReviewTime": 1107648000, "reviewTime": "02 6, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1VGJ3E0R0PGP1", "asin": "B0001FTVEK", "reviewerName": "MurftheSurf \"Honest\"", "helpful": [21, 23], "reviewText": "The right headphone speaker goes in and out. The headphones fit poorly; actually drop off my head if I bend over.  There is no red light on the headphones to tell you that they are on.  Neither the distance nor the quality is any better than my old, cheap Panasonic ones. If I go into another room ~30-40 feet away especially if there is a wall between the headphones and the transmitter I begin to get hiss and interference. UPDATE-Lowered Star rating-after time you find the tuner and volume control mechanism start to fail-still using them but it is a royal pain. If someone changes settings then you can spend half an hour trying to re-balance the tuner and volume wheels. The only positive note is that my off the shelf rechargeable batteries work fine.UPDATE: I COULD NOT STAND THEM ANYMORE-I bought new headphone that are working-Audio Unlimited SPK-9110 900MHz Wireless Stereo Headphones (Rechargeable)", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Nothing Special-unhappy", "unixReviewTime": 1161129600, "reviewTime": "10 18, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3DI391K4GAI7Q", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "A. Taylor \"Music Addict & Tech Junkie\"", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "I bought this lens when it was first released back in 2006. After three and a half years of use, I find it consistently the most used lens in my camera bag. Quite importantly, I haven't personally experienced any of the negatives I've read in other reviews. Not once. The pictures I am able to capture with this lens are nothing less than superb in quality. The lens is very well built and feels totally solid - built like a truck. Of course, the size of this lens is clearly the most amazing feature. Even fully extended, the zoom is quite significantly shorter than a 200mm standard zoom lens, therefore calling very little attention to itself.  The images I've been able to get with this lens are amazing. It's feels well balanced on the front of my 30D.  Easy to handle, and easy to swap out if you need a shorter focal length.  Think about all of the pictures you can capture when you can have 300mm worth of zoom on your camera without lugging around a huge, sometimes inappropriate feeling lens. Though certainly quite a significant investment, this lens has been worth every penny I spent on it. If you're in the market for a premium zoom lens and this baby fits in your budget, I highly recommend this lens. You'll absolutely love it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The BEST lens in my bag... Do not let the nay-sayers scare you off!", "unixReviewTime": 1259884800, "reviewTime": "12 4, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "AROQO2VDODT7", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "Branden", "helpful": [23, 27], "reviewText": "If Canon's red ring means high quality, Canon's green ring must be what they use when the lens costs as much as a red ring lens, but can't take sharp photos. Canon sticking that green ring around the barrel suckered me into buying one of these. Over the two months I used it, this lens always frustrated me with it's poor image quality and it's heavy front element that would zoom the lens and change the focal length. And although much of the literature talks up how the \"DO\" diffractive optic technology has made a shorter length lens than otherwise possible, with the hood attached and the lens extended, it effectively saves less than an inch of length.I wanted to like this lens so much, and figured that for the hefty price is must take good photos, but I was wrong. In the end I sold this on the used market, and bought the 70-200mm f/4 IS, which is the same price as this lens. The 70-200 doesn't zoom as far, and is physically bigger, but is such a wildly superior design that I have never missed this DO lens.I don't like writing such a negative review, but I really was very disappointed with this lens. I gave it a fair shot, using it for over a thousand photos over two months, and I have no regrets selling it afterwards. Divert your funds and attention towards either theCanon EF 70-300mm f/4-5.6 IS USMfor half the price, or theCanon EF 70-200mm f/4 L IS USMfor the same price.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Not worth the price", "unixReviewTime": 1281398400, "reviewTime": "08 10, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A2JAIPJVPRODVO", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "Brian Monahan", "helpful": [22, 22], "reviewText": "I have used this lens for 2 years on my rebel, 20 D and now on my 40D. It is an excellent lens and has never dissappointed me. There are technical reviews that talk about some image softness, but I have not found this to be true. It is the best lens you can carry around without a tripod and get a high zoom range. For sports photos it isn't a very fast lens, but you can just turn the ISO up to 800 or 1600 and get great shots ( lbiet with some noise that you can photoshop filter. It is especially and easy lens to travel with and I have taken it all over the world.  The lens is supported by DXO optics software that you simply must own if you own a canon body and this lens 9 it takes care of all the lens optic imperfections automaticaly when you porcess the image. It costs a lot but you will be using it a long time.  There is no comparason with the L series lens that are much larger and heavier.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Outstanding Lens for your 40D or your Rebel xti", "unixReviewTime": 1195516800, "reviewTime": "11 20, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AN95U1I50CU91", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "David C. Kraus \"Stereo Lover\"", "helpful": [73, 80], "reviewText": "This lens gives good results except for two weaknesses. First, the diffractive optics causes little \"donut\" hot spots in images when areas are exceptionally bright i.e. reflection off a lake. They look a bit like the donuts of a telephoto mirror lens. Second, the zoom ring is very hard to turn. It doesn't have the fluid smoothness of their other zoom lenses. It's acceptable in use, but barely. You have to put so much force on turning the zoom ring that you have to take the camera away from your eye to do it. Very inconvenient, since you could miss an important moment. These negatives a countered by the lens' small size and weight. With it, and Canon's 17-85 zoom, you can cover nearly every shooting situation. Given its weaknesses, however, it should sell for less.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Excellent results for size and weight, but zoom is a problem", "unixReviewTime": 1168646400, "reviewTime": "01 13, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2UJ6U2NONY8K0", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "David from DC \"daytraitors\"", "helpful": [26, 30], "reviewText": "--Update--I had a problem with the zoom sticking at ~200mm.  The rotating barrel wouldn't allow me to zoom smoothly. Imagine dragging a stick along the sidewalk and feeling the \"click\" every time you hit those scored lines in between the poured concrete.  That's what zooming in/out of this lens felt like.On the plus side, even though I bought the lens used on what I will call an \"unnamed auction website,\" Canon fixed the problem without charging me.  I told them it was under warranty, and they didn't question it.  +1 for Canon tech support.  Obviously, YMMV.--End Update--I finally decided that with the price drop on the used DO lenses that I'd plump down $820 for a used DO lens figuring that folks who own high-end stuff like this probably baby them anyway.Summary: it's a _great_ telephoto lens that's very practical. . . depending one what you do.Who it's not for:Studio photographers with strobes can do the same with less $.  In fact, any strobist's image can do just as well with a standard (non-L) lens, or better with the L lenses.  Since the flash is already \"freezing\" the image, there's little advantage in the studio to having DO or IS.  As a portrait lens, it works, but it doesn't work any better than a standard EF.  For the same price, you can get a higher contrast L lens.Who will like it:Travel and vacation photographers will appreciate the ability to zoom WAY longer than any other light-weight zoom lens while still being able to crop back to 70mm.  The ability to go on excursions without depending on a tripod is a HUGE plus.  As an example, I remember visiting a few places in Murano, Italy where tripods were strictly prohibited and lighting was abysmal for the hand-holders.  Needless to say, all of my shots were either blurry or noisy (in a bad way) when using my standard lens.Who will love it:All of you supposed photojournalists who like to \"f/8 and forget it\" pretty much need this lens.  Photojournalist coverage seems to be the latest trend in wedding photography, a style that emphasizes composition and candid personality over staged, technical quality (of a strobist).  This lens empowers the photojournalist to slyly maneuver into various positions to get THE SHOT, especially in difficult real-time situations when you can not hit the rewind button and try again. . . like in weddings.Technical testing:I tested this lens and benchmarked against my tried and true EF 35-105 f3.5-4.5.  I was in a controlled studio setting photographing a brown wicker chair with a shiny silk pillow and a copy of the Economist (they have lots of charts with small lines).  I set the strobes and took a reading with my Sekonic L-358: ISO 100, f8.0; a great test for you photojournalists.Using a Canon 10D and a pan-tilt tripod, I took two series of images, 70mm f8 and 100mm f8.  I captured Large/fine jpgs and imported into Photoshop.  I visually inspected the images for contrast and aberration.  There was absolutely NO visible difference even at 200% magnification.HOWEVER, there is one very noticeable difference between the lenses.  Something in the DO glass is slowing down the lens.  The histogram confirms that the DO images are somehow darker than the non-DO images by almost exactly 1/3 stop.  Naturally, I go back and recapture the image on my DO lens at f7.1 and voila - perfect exposure. So, maybe the new rule for photojournalists with this lens is to \"f7.1 and forget it.\"Conclusion:Before we're tempted to knock the lens for being too slow, losing a 1/3 stop, not having clarity of the L lenses for the same price, etc.  Let's remember that this is a specialty lens with a purpose.  It's a portable lens that has all the clarity of a standard lens while offering a MUCH wider focal range.  Will you see sports photographers using this?  They would be stupid to do so.  Commercial photographers are the same.  At the same time, you'll be hard pressed to find a wedding photographer lugging around a 70-200/2.8L.  Who wants to be the idiot setting up a tripod in the middle of the aisle while bride and groom are taking vows?To make this lens even more useful, I'm planning to pick up a used EOS 1ds.  It's an older full-frame DSLR that's finally dropped to an affordable price.  The 1.6x crop factor on the 10D and similar SLRs make it harder to \"fit\" some images into such a tight frame.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Great if you like to f/8 and forget it, or f7.1 with this lens... (read below)", "unixReviewTime": 1270684800, "reviewTime": "04 8, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A29EGA8RIDPUJ1", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "D. Henderson", "helpful": [64, 65], "reviewText": "I like the DO (Diffractive Optics) of this lens. It's great to take pictures from a distance without using a long, bulky lens that makes me stand out like a sore thumb. Even though it is heavy, the IS (Image Stabilizer) compensates well for the shaking as I line up my shots. The dual IS switch for either full IS or panning shots (think following running players on a field) is a very nice feature.Oh, this is a kit that includes an ET-65B Lens Hood and a LP1116 Soft Lens Pouch. Too bad I didn't know before I ordered the hood separately.The lens fits nicely in a standard camera bag. And I can store the lens hood reversed on the lens and on the camera although I can't adjust the lens with the hood in this position because of the long length of the hood. And because of the hood's length, an external flash is recommended if you need a flash shot.Because the 70-300 DO uses 58mm filter threading, I found a better use for my UV filter than being on my original Canon kit lens.This lens is a keeper.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A very well designed telephoto lens with more accessories", "unixReviewTime": 1149292800, "reviewTime": "06 3, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A15U38AWJ3JDN5", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "digerati \"digerati\"", "helpful": [24, 24], "reviewText": "Judging by Amazon customer buying behavior, it's a toss-up between this lens and theCanon EF 70-300mm f/4-5.6 IS USM(AKA non DO 70-300mm). So why would you pay twice the price for the Diffractive Optics (DO) lens?1. Image quality2. Weight and LengthI have used both lenses, and the 70-300mm DO IS is the one that I purchased.The DO lens produces sharp, contrasty, aesthetically pleasing images. It is ever so slightly soft at exactly 300mm, but this can easily be fixed with mild sharpening. The non-DO lens is softer, shows distortion towards the edge of the frame, and produces \"flatter\" (lower contrast) images. I had to sharpen, correct and tweak the contrast of every single image from the non-DO lens.This lens weighs 720g (1.6lb) and is less than 100mm (3.93in) long when closed. The non-DO lens is 630g (1.4lb) but 144mm (5.6in) long when closed. The DO lens is slightly heavier, but not by much -- about the weight of a \"candy bar\" mobile phone -- but far shorter. This makes it more practical for travel and other work outside a studio.I'd make the same choice again in a heartbeat. I have now taken many thousands of shots with the 70-300mm DO IS, and couldn't be happier -- sharp, strong images that don't require a lot of post-processing.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Why this lens vs. the regular 70-300mm?", "unixReviewTime": 1235260800, "reviewTime": "02 22, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "ATXZN4ZBT7VT", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "D. L. Howe \"dave\"", "helpful": [18, 18], "reviewText": "Since I use a Canon Rebel with a 1.6x crop this lens becomes (in effect) like a 112mm - 480mm zoom.  I considered the \"standard\" 70-300mm IS zoom and the 100-400 IS-L zoom and selected this because of it's size and weight.  The DO has not been an issue and the pictures are sharp and clear.  I did discover that the Canon 1.4x extender does not work with this lens and neither does the 2x glass I bought for the front.I have been especially surprised (and pleased) at the macro possibilities.  A butterfly at four feet nearly fills the frame!Another 100mm would be nice, but this lens fits nicely with my 17-85mm IS to give me a nice complete range for field trips.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great backpacking lens", "unixReviewTime": 1162512000, "reviewTime": "11 3, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2CN3OQVQ4AZ6", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "Eric Radman", "helpful": [26, 27], "reviewText": "I found this lens to be superb.  Fast focus, very good image stablizer, sharp images.  However, I also found the zooming of this lens to be stiff and not very smooth. I was told this was due to the design of the lens with the weight of the glass toward the filter side of the lens.The solution I came across is to use a collapsable, rubber glare hood which I attached to the front of the lens. When the hood is collapsed, I can grasp the lens barrel by this rubber hood and zoom in and out with great ease.  The collapseable hood, when fully extended, also serves to prevent glare spots that others report.  Sure, this shouldn't be the case for such an expensive lens, but this is a very simple and functional solution that makes this lens' zoom characteristics much smoother.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great Lens, but telephoto zoom is stiff", "unixReviewTime": 1173571200, "reviewTime": "03 11, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A10WHLRZJNP93V", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "Gray 4 Wisdom", "helpful": [54, 55], "reviewText": "*Update*  A reviewer recommended DxO software (dxo.com) for this lens, so I tried out the demo first with these raw files from the zoo.  Unreal results.  Just amazing.  Prints are simply beautiful.  You have to try to believe.What a great zoom lens.  I prefer primes and really wanted a 100/2.0 to go along with my 50/1.4 for my 5D.  However, I got a great deal on the DO zoom so jumped on it because of its versatility.It has to be one of Canon's most controversial/misunderstood zoom lens. The price is one factor and softness the other.  The 70-200/2.8 IS takes better pictures (out the box) with less computer work needed later.  However, this lens is heavy and white and needs a tripod.  But it has terrific quality.It takes time to appreciate this DO lens.  I got so many blurry images in the beginning that I almost took it back.  But I decided to take pictures all day to figure it out before my daughter's kindergarten class went to the zoo. This is what I discovered:-best sharpness  between 70-200 is f/5.6.-between 200-300 is f/11 and f/16-Image Stabilization is amazing-auto focus is lighting quick and accurate-size and weight are amazing for this focal rangeNeedless to say, the pictures I took at the zoo were terrific hand held. Because it was a sunny day, shutter speeds were high and the images were blurry free.  Shot in RAW and WOW when I opened them up.  This was \"L\" class all the way.  Now, I understood the price/performance advantage of this lens. After five hours at the zoo and double checking that my group of kids were still with me, I realized it was never obtrusive.  There is no way in hell one could have used the 70-200/2.8 IS for that long around their neck and shoulder!Kudos to Canon for making this technological wonder.  Just shoot RAW and the softness goes away and the images are \"L\" quality.  This lens will be with you all the time ready to go.  That's priceless in my book!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Awesome lens if you take the time...", "unixReviewTime": 1185408000, "reviewTime": "07 26, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AF8XXTXR6MNL4", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "In the Middle of the Road", "helpful": [67, 68], "reviewText": "I bought this lens at the same time I bought the 20D -- when the camera was first sold. It's not the lightest lens around, but it's compact, quick focusing and has few if any discernible faults. It doesn't stick out in a crowd, at least until you rack it out with the hood on.It was one of the early choices when I decided to move up to SLR Digital from other types -- and the old reliable 35mm SLRs.I'd buy it again and I plan to use it on a 5D when it arrives, for a trip with me and the 20D, This is core travel lens for me. As for quality, it's very good. I own some Ls, but this dances in the same league. I was a professional who cut his teeth on Nikon Fs (and used other cameras up to 8x10). I've used optics from Leica to Nikon to Goerz. If your images aren't sharp, consider that it may be user error.I mostly use autofocus, but frequently switch to manual and it fits the hand well either way. The balance is good.I don't see the softness at 300mm others refer to, but typically there are sweet spots of f stop and focal length with zooms. Every lens has some inherent compromise -- fast or slow, fat or slim. I don't observe any softness, but I shoot only in RAW and do image processing outside the camera. JPGs are useful or unavoidable in places, but pointless if RAW is available.I do large prints 13x19 or larger and the image holds together as well as anything else I've used.FWIW, in the first few days I owned this lens, I shot a long series on sea birds feeding -- and the images contained details I couldn't see clearly while shooting (more common than admitted). But the smooth zoom and auto focus made composition on moving objects easy. The camera lens combination was perfect. Better equipment does not makes you a better photographer, but it can help a good one. The image stablization is very good. It's great for sports photography, but remember that autofocus is sometimes not the answer (and sometimes the only rational answer).It has a hood and bag supplied. I sometimes use a rollup rubber hood that fits across several lenses. The hood self-packs nicely in an event.On the 20D (and others with the same sized sensor), this provides an equivalent to 112-480mm. If you intend to use a teleconverter, don't even consider the Canon unless they have a new one. It doesn't fit. I have a 1.4x and it works well with exposure and autofocus and extends the reach to 672mm. I'm not a big fan of this, but FWIW.I typically travel with this lens, a 10-22mm EFS zoom (which won't fit the 5d), a Tamron 18-200, the 100mm macro, and a 35mm f/2 as a base lens. At some point, for travel at least, I'll sub the 24-70mm. Add two bodies, some computer junk. I won't decide on the kit for the 5D 20D combo for a while, but this one stays.Weight. For some people, this is a bigger deal than they know. A camera bag weighs nothing for the first 20 minus. This lens and camera can get heavy. I don't find it a problem, but some might prefer a less compact design with the DO.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A excellent lens, compact, good traveler", "unixReviewTime": 1153440000, "reviewTime": "07 21, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1B0LNUCV2U75C", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "jabdigital", "helpful": [216, 222], "reviewText": "I spent weeks in forums reading up on this lens, and always seemed to come across a mixed bag of comments about it. I've had it for about a month, and I have taken a good amount of pictures with it. It does take great pictures, all the way up to 300mm. There is a touch of softness at 300mm, but this can all be taken care of using an unsharp mask in Photoshop/Paint Shop Pro/etc..... As a matter of fact, this lens seems particularly receptive to sharpening. People swear by L lenses, but if it's between this lens and say the 70-200mm IS you're talking about a minimal difference in sharpness out of the camera, and the 70-200mm IS costs more with less of a range. The DO is also black, and the DO technology enables it to be much smaller than you'd expect. At full zoom it is smaller than the 70-200mm IS or non-IS!! I took this lens to a NY Mets baseball game, and did not stick out like a sore thumb. YOU CAN TAKE THIS LENS ANYWHERE!!! The image stabilization is great, and has 2 modes you can use.I am very satisfied with this lens. Don't let the L snobs sway you away.I bought this for 1169.95 and it's $30 drop to 1139.95 was refunded to me by Amazon. I wouldn't shop anywhere else.great lens, great place to buy.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Criminally bum rapped.", "unixReviewTime": 1118102400, "reviewTime": "06 7, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A16SRDVPBXN69C", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "M. ANNE", "helpful": [23, 23], "reviewText": "I have owned this lens for several years and although I have upgraded to almost all L professional lens,( the 35L, 135L,  70-200 f2.8 IS L , 300L, etc)  I always bring this lens when travelling.  Over the years I have taken many \"keeper\" photos with it, including shots taken at children's soccer games where I can shoot without being so conspicuous (try that when shooting with the big \"white\" lens), at dog shows, street shots, foreign countries where it really is impossible to use the big lens and still enjoy daily walks, etc.The sheer compact size is enough to keep it in my bag but also the lens has excellent optics and with the sharpening techniques today I can easily sharpen up if the image is slightly soft, at the end of the range occasionally. I have a few shots on the computer where I thought I had used the 300L when going though due to the great color and richness.As a note to any who don't know,  this lens does not work well with filters which can cause loss of quality.  The only exception is the polarizer.  If I had to keep only 2 lens, this would be one of them.  You will read bad reviews of this lens but I have not had any of the problems and lens go in and out of fashion as you will find if you get involved in the photo community.  Very highly recommend.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Light,very compact high quality lens", "unixReviewTime": 1209859200, "reviewTime": "05 4, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "AERI6P7DEDMBO", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "Marvin Kent Gibbs", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "The few reviews complaining about this lens are mystifying to me.  On my 7D, the lens is not heavy, bulky, or difficult to control in terms of the zoom.  It takes fantastic pictures.  When I first used this lens many of my images were blurry, but I realized that it was me, not the lens.  Once I compensated (shutter speed, aperture and ISO) the images were fantastic, if not ideal.  This lens is especially useful for nature photography when there needs to be some distance between you and the image.  I own the Canon 24-105mm L (outstanding), the 100mm Macro L (superb), and the DO (fantastic).  This trinity meets or exceeds all of my needs.  You will be very happy with the DO, and you might find that you use it more than any other lens in your arsenal.  It's expensive, but what lens of sufficient quality and versatility isn't?  Buy it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Lens!  Buy it, you'll love it!", "unixReviewTime": 1285286400, "reviewTime": "09 24, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A3H9S06RFG6FCZ", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "Matt Dotson \"Say something about yourself!\"", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "I bought this for my wife for our safari in Tanzania and I couldn't be happier.  She shoots with a 20D and previously used a EF 70-200 F4 L lens which she found too heavy.  She used to get blurry pictures because she couldn't keep that lens still while shooting, but with the EF 70-300 DO she gets consistently better pictures, less fatigue, and I'm happier because she's happier :)  She got several pictures that I missed because I left my even bigger and heavier EF 100-400mm lens in the truck while we were walking around, but she brought her camera and got the shot.Other than her being happy, I like this lens because it's not as bold as the white lenses, which makes it easier to snap some candids of people without them noticing.I don't really like the zoom ring, it's a little too stiff and I found myself struggling to get the zoom I wanted. Maybe this is because it's new, but I'd prefer it to be a little bit looser.I wish it was just a little bit faster. F4.5-5.6 is okay, but it would be perfect if it was a stop faster (of course it would be twice as expensive too).I feel like I got a fair deal for the lens. Of course I would have loved to buy it for less, but I feel like I got good value for my money.  This lens for a happy wife is probably worth it :)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Stopped my wife from complaining ... seriously!!", "unixReviewTime": 1231804800, "reviewTime": "01 13, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A62NG07L1U4I1", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "M. crislip \"covertly famous\"", "helpful": [20, 23], "reviewText": "All the praise that I'd heard for DO optics makes it sound almost too good to be true. Granted, it's a fantastic lens and I've taken some pretty astoundingly good pictures, but it's a little heavier and a little bigger than I expected. Mind you, it's still small for 70-300, but it doesn't really feel that much lighter. Also, you really need to lock the lens or else its weight when it's over your shoulder, causes it to extend. Would I buy it again? Yes. Is it a wonder-lens that replaces everything in your camera bag? No.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "I like it but...", "unixReviewTime": 1174867200, "reviewTime": "03 26, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A29PBY10CGDKA0", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "Mike From Mesa \"MikeFromMesa\"", "helpful": [21, 22], "reviewText": "I was looking for something to extend the reach of my Canon 18-200mm lens. I tried the 100-400mm and loved it, but found it just too long and too heavy for normal use. I tried the Sigma 150-500mm, but it was even longer than the Canon 100-400mm. I also tried the 70-300mm USM IS (non-DO) lens, but did not like the length of that lens either, so I ended up buying this lens. There are a lot of things I like about this lens.1. It is short. It is, in fact, shorter, when closed, than my 18-200mm lens and a little easier to carry.2. Even with the lens extended to 300mm, it is still relatively short. Especially if the lens hood is either reversed or removed from the lens.3. The lens has a locking mechanism to keep it from extending when just walking around.4. The pictures, out to about 250mm, are clear and crisp.5. The colors are vibrant and true.6. The USM is quiet and quick.But there are also what I see as some shortcomings.1. Pictures taken at above 250mm or so are a little soft. I mounted the camera and lens on a tripod, set the mirror lock-up and attached a remote release. But even with all of that the photos at 300mm are a little soft when viewed above 50% magnification. And, of course, pictures that I took at 300mm hand held also had some camera movement as well as being a little soft. This makes it difficult to get good pictures by cropping something small out of the photos.2. It is heavier than the non-DO version (25.4 vs. 22.2 oz).3. I found that I had a more difficult time holding my camera steady with this lens than the 100-400mm that I tried earlier. I assume that is because the lens is short and cannot easily be held from both front and back to steady it.4. As other reviewers have written, the lens lock switch is not accessible when the lens hood is mounted reversed. Since I keep the lens hood mounted all the time, this means that I cannot lock it when I put it into my camera bag.5. It is an expensive lens.But, even with all of the shortcomings I am happy with this lens. The pictures, even out to 300mm, are good and I saw the same softness in the non-DO version as in this one. Since this lens is so short, and the throw is not great, it is easy for me to forget that the lens is extended to 300mm. If I carry my monopod with me, or use a tripod, the softness is not visible unless the photo is viewed above 50-75%. And, perhaps most importantly, the lens is easy to carry and so I will be able to use it when walking in the National Parks. I would have rated this lens as 5 stars instead of 4 had the photos been sharper at 300mm. I think that this is an expensive lens and, for the price, expected sharpness throughout the range. It is not an L lens, but the price is close and I thought the picture quality should be as high everywhere in its range.UPDATED 10/3/2010:A week ago I replaced my Canon 500D with a new 7D. I had not expected that changing my camera would have had any effect on the quality of the images from this lens, but it certainly did. Before, as I wrote, the images taken above 250mm were a little soft, even when taken with a tripod and mirror-lockup. But all of that seems to have gone away when this lens was mounted on the new 7D. Images all the way out to 300mm are now clear and sharp. The color and clarity, always good, are in no way diminished on the 7D.I can only attribute the change to the ability of the 7D to focus more accurately than my copy of the 500D. Perhaps that is an innate problem with the 500D or perhaps my copy just was out of wack somehow. In any case this lens now produces very sharp photos for me and I am very happy with it.I tried to change the rating of this lens from 4 stars to 5, but the Amazon software did not reflect the change, so I will say again - mounted on my new 7D this lens is very sharp. Add to that the fact that this lens is short and easier to handle than the 70-300 IS (non-DO) version and the result is a combination that I am very happy to have.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "I like this lens", "unixReviewTime": 1277942400, "reviewTime": "07 1, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "AHO34W7GMCNAC", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "Nicholson", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "I purchased this lens because I do a lot of candids and 200mm is just not good enough. I also recently purchased a 5D MkII, so any praise I may have for the lens may be partly due to this camera. When I read some reviews of this lens, I was worried that it was weird. I will mostly address these issues.  Is it heavy? No. I use a monopod and hand carry a 100-400 lens without problems. This lens is only 52 mm at the front,so it has amazing reach for its size.  Does the zoom feel heavy? No.  The zoom needs some resistance, since the front of the lens would extend by itself if it was too light on the zoom control.  This is the same issue you have with the Sigma 18-200, another great all purpose lens for candid shots. Both lenses have a lock button that keeps the lens from extending when you not taking pictures.Lastly and most importantly does the diffraction type lens cause any problems? No. I have literaly seen no problems with lack of sharpness or unusual flare. I think you would have to shoot  tripod test scenes to reveal this. Using a monopod in real life conditions,the issue does not appear to exist. Admitedly with back ligthting you can get some fogginess and flare,but this is just like other lenses. I think some ot the reviwers who are critical spend too much time bench testing.  When I am  doing candid,or travel photography,especially with a full frame camera,this may become my main lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Amazing", "unixReviewTime": 1241395200, "reviewTime": "05 4, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A23ONMGKEWDG4M", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "R. Sutton", "helpful": [30, 31], "reviewText": "I use this lens on a Canon XTi.  On that camera it's in effect a 98mm - about 480mm lens.  I also use aCanon EF 24-105mm f/4 L IS USM Lens for Canon EOS SLR Cameras.  They rate about the same.  Both have excellent image Stabilization and great optics.  I'm generally torn between the two on which to leave on the camera.  This lens is a tiny bit soft at 300 (480 on my XTi) but it has never been an issue. I thought about buying one of Canon's 70-200L series, but they are huge, white, and heavy.  Besides I have the 400mm `L' series lens and $$$ goes just so far.December 22, 2007 - Still a great lens.  It's been in use for 4 months and not a flaw.  Highly recommend.  Not the 70-200 IS \"L\" series but only in that the 70-200 is f-2.8.  But the IM makes up for most of that.You will be happy with this lens, try it.February 2008 UpdateSanta brought a Canon 40d to which this lens is attached most of the time.  The lens quality on the 40d is even better.  Has the actual quality changed?  No, but on the 40d it's more usable do to high usable ISO settings.  The XTi now carries the Sigma 10-20mm full time. [Note: The Sigma 10-20 super wide is a GREAT lens as well]  No lens changing in the field.  I have a choice of 10 Canon and Sigma lenses, what does using this lens almost full time tell you?  Right, you'll be happy with it to.May 1, 2008 Update.  Now the most used lens on the 40d.  Visiting Yosemite National park and at 300mm the shots across the valley of Yosemite's Upper, Middle and lower waterfalls (all one set of falls) are breathtaking with this lens.  This is a location where the only way to view all three falls in one picture, is to shoot across the valley.  Worth the $$$.May 2009 -  Graduated to the Canon 5D mark II -  this is a great lens on a full frame camera body as well.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great lens for walk-About +++++", "unixReviewTime": 1188432000, "reviewTime": "08 30, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AEUTUDSKKOTN5", "asin": "B0001G6U3Y", "reviewerName": "Timothy Danielson", "helpful": [17, 17], "reviewText": "This lens is all that and a bag of chips. The image stabilization works beautifully at 70mm as well as 300mm. IS mode 2 for panning also worked very nicely. When people see this lens it hard for them to believe it's a 70mm-300mm. The ability to manually fucus even in full auto mode is another great feature. The price was more than I wanted to spend, but I'm glad I did, the lens is worth the price.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "WOW, What a Lens!!!", "unixReviewTime": 1169337600, "reviewTime": "01 21, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A33G2V3MN59LQX", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "Alan Somers", "helpful": [18, 18], "reviewText": "I bought this camera to replace a nearly five-year-old Olympus D-460Z and I am quite impressed with it overall.My main criteria were high zoom and low shot-to-shot delay, and the PowerShot S1 IS satisfies both criteria extremely well...and more. It has controls for every aspect of picture-taking that I could ever want to adjust. The commonly used functions are usually only a button press or two away rather than buried in the menu system.The movie mode is quite useful rather than just a gimmick. I can definitely see myself leaving my camcorder at home in situations where movie-taking opportunities will be few and far between.My D-460Z supports alignment guides for panoramas (when using Olympus-branded flash cards), but I'm blown away by the PowerShot S1 IS's \"Stitch Assist\" implementation. For every shot after the first, you are presented with a dimmed version of the overlapping one-third of the previous shot with which to align your next shot.I really like that this camera uses standard AA cells. It will save me a fortune on extra battery sets vs. the Li-ion batteries used in several other digicams.I wish Canon had opted for a USB 2.0 or Firewire interface because the files -- movies, especially -- take forever to download over USB 1.1. This fact did not detract from my rating because I find the workaround to be perfectly acceptable: a USB 2.0 or Firewire CompactFlash reader.I do have a couple of nit-picky focus-related complaints. First of all, I find the autofocus to be very problematic in incandescent room light, which leads to many out-of-focus shots because even the manual focus is difficult to use in that light. Also, it's very awkward to use the manual focus with the electronic viewfinder due to the placement of the omni control; I wish they had put the manual focus up/down controls more toward the front of the camera.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great camera, with a couple of annoyances", "unixReviewTime": 1102291200, "reviewTime": "12 6, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A3N2H8BJYQHGYG", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "Al \"Cub Fan\"", "helpful": [34, 34], "reviewText": "I have had this camera for about 3 months.  One complaint I read in other reviews is that it uses up batteries quickly.  Well, my experience has been that I think it does very well on Rayovac rechargeable NiMH batteries.  These recharge in 15 minutes and last a long time.The features on this camera are great for beginners and the more advanced.  For beginners you can use all the automatic settings and it does a great job.  For the advanced you have shutter or aperture priority settings as well as manual settings so you can do some creative things.  You can change the ISO from 50 to 400 based on lighting.  I also like the movie mode.  I bought a half gig compact flash card, which are not that expensive, and can store 4+ minutes at the highest resolution to about 20 minutes at the lowest.  The pictures are clear and crisp and the colors are brilliant.  I read some complaints about the flash.  I have not experienced any problems, but it is possible to adjust flash output if pictures seen to be over-exposed, as some complained.At maximun zoom, unless you're using a high shutter speed, the image stabilization is not enough to compensate for movement.  You may need a tripod.  I took some action pictures at a baseball game and used the 400 ISO setting and shot a lot of pictures at 1/2000 sec with max zoom.  The pictures were outstanding!I highly recommend this camera", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Canon S1 IS Experience", "unixReviewTime": 1099267200, "reviewTime": "11 1, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A17YNSMOWM7U3I", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "AP", "helpful": [45, 45], "reviewText": "If you're like most people reading about the Canon Powershot S1, you've owned at least one or two digital cameras in the past, and chances are they've been the point and shoot kind. Now you'd like something with a few more manual controls.I'm not going to repeat what's in many other reviews here (an amazing 10x stabilized zoom ... you'll find it difficult to move back to a camera without this, generally excellent photo quality, and really compact - HOW do they fit this all in such a tiny package??) but instead I'd like to point out a few aspects of the camera that haven't been discussed that much in other reviews here.1. Get yourself a basic book on digital photography, so you will actually use some of the manual features of this camera. A $15 investment will give you better photo results within 30 minutes. Guaranteed. I got myself \"Digital Photography Pocket Guide\" from Amazon and I can already see the results in my photos.2. You'll love taking photos by using the viewfinder and not the LCD screen (which, at 1.5\", seems dismally small for a camera such as this) - the viewfinder is full of (though not cluttered with) details of your shot. Aperture, resolution, etc.3. The zoom control is tricky and takes time to get used to. A slight flick of the control and you have quickly moved beyond 5x magnification. You'll get the hang of it quickly, but be forewarned that you will be frustrated using the zoom initially.4. while other reviews have commented on using the Sandisk Ultra II card for taking VGA movies, I'm a little perplexed. While the movies are recorded on the card just fine, transferring them to my 2.4 gigahertz P4 machine leads to loss of data in the transfer and I am unable to view them properly. I am convinced there is an issue with the file transfer speed related to the camera's mechanism, NOT the memory card - for I have tried multiple ones. If you are buying this camera purely for this reason, do check this out carefully so that you too don't deal with the same problems (besides, the 512 MB card allows barely two minutes of 640x480 video.)5. The battery meter, which comes on only when the batteries are about to run out, could be better and indicate the approximate number of shots left. Come on Canon, you can do better...All in all, these are small deficiencies, certainly not glaring. I'm pleased with my stabilized zoom camera choice (the Panasonic FZ series were too bulky, the Minolta Dimage Z series too plastic feeling).One last point. Avoid the Canon PSC 70 carrying case made for this camera. Do read my review on that one should you purchase this camera.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A delightful 10x stabilized zoom camera", "unixReviewTime": 1096588800, "reviewTime": "10 1, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A13INHN7UX7JY5", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "BostonAaron", "helpful": [58, 59], "reviewText": "After considerable research I purchased the Canon S1 IS camera from Amazon about a month ago along with the Lexar 12X 256MB Compact Flash memory.  It arrived even before Amazon said it would!  This is my first digital camera and so far I am very pleased with it.  I wanted a camera that would take good travel pictures and images of grandchildren who often don't like cameras near them.  I expect to print the better pictures as either 4x6 or 5x7 and occasionally 8x10s.  At first I was reluctant to consider 3.2MP cameras but my research showed that a figure of merit for a digital camera should actually be proportional to MP times the optical zoom factor squared.  This gives a heavy weighting to optical zoom (it's related to picture area) and it also means that you can avoid considerable cropping and wasting of MP.  That's why people are often surprised that this camera does so well against its higher MP competition.  It's also adequate for printing my size pictures. Unfortunately, most hand held 10X cameras used at maximum zoom also need to have a shutter speed of 1/400th of a second to avoid picture bluring caused by camera shake so that you can use this 10X feature only in bright sunlight, unless you support the camera.  The Canon S1's image stabilization system allows hand held pictures with much slower shutter speeds so it is useful more often.  I always leave it on and I've taken sharp pictures of ducks, birds, and, oh yes, our grandchildren at a playground.  Our daughter, who is a professional photographer, has even commented on the quality of these candid shots, something she did not do with my film camera with lower power zoom.  Independently, I also purchased a lightweight RipVan100 battery charger that can operate at overseas voltages and I carry around an extra set of charged NIMH AA batteries, just in case, although I've yet to need them.  Of course, in a pinch, I can always use universally available AA batteries, another feature of this camera.This camera, like all 10X zooms, uses an electronic viewfinder.  I find that it is hard to see well in bright sunlight (especially if I'm wearing sunglasses), even at maximum brightness setting.  Its resolution is also poor and the images often seem overexposed - but, and this is important, the images don't shake at 10X with the IS on! and the actual pictures are correctly exposed. The swiveling LCD screen grows on you and you can take pictures looking down at the camera at waist level.  The grandchildren may not even realize you are actually taking their picture, adding to the candid effect. I haven't found the lack of an autofocusing lamp to be a problem in dim light and you can always set the manual focus to about 8 feet (no zoom used) and everything from 4 feet to infinitity will be sharp.  (I got this tidbit from my research).After it was announced but before it was readily available the camera received so-so reviews but the recent user reviews from those who actually own and use one have been highly favorable and I agree with them.  It's well made, not too heavy, and the basics can be learned quickly.  Advanced users can find many features to investigate and I'm still learning how to use some of the exposure and focus lock modes for special cases.  I think that using the Auto mode (or the Program P mode) with IS on will work for most people, most of the time.  And, as an added bonus, you can even take movies (9 minutes/1GB at best quality) if you have a large memory.  I'm glad I discovered this &quot;fun&quot; camera.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great 10X Zoom Camera", "unixReviewTime": 1086480000, "reviewTime": "06 6, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "ACL0T7X1THPAV", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "Bryan Cass \"Bee Ry Boogy\"", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "I bought the Powershot S1 IS in Oct. 2005 to replace my Canon T70 film camera.  I really like this camera, and here is why:1) It has an \"Auto\" mode so that my wife and kids can use it without worrying about flash, f-stops and shutter speeds.  OK, almost all digitals do this.  ;-)2) But, you can change to Program AE, Tv, Av or fully manual mode.  Now we're talkin'!  I'm all for point and shoot ease when it comes to family snapshots, but sometimes I like to get creative with a sunset, moonrise, night shot, fill-flash, silhouette, etc. and this camera can handle it.  It's got up to a 15-second shutter, which is longer than many in this class.3) You can add narration comments to photos, which I find handy when documenting something that the picture alone does not explain.  Like, I do genealogy photos so I want to say who lived there or whose grave marker that was, or whatever.  You can download the comments to the computer as a WAV file as well.  It's like taking notes while you're recording the scene.4) Movie mode is *almost* a replacement for my Sony Digital8 camcorder.  Other than the camcorder recording in stereo and having better low-light sensitivity, the Powershot S1 can handle most of what I use a camcorder for.  Image stabilization and zoom while recording are bonuses in this camera class.5) No lens swapping any more.  With the 10x zoom from 38mm to 380mm, there's no need to carry any lenses with it, although you can get a wider wide angle and a longer telephoto, but why?  If you're that into photography, you should be looking at digital SLRs anyway.6) Vari-angle LCD makes it so much easier to get an angle that you can't when the LCD is attached.  Shoot over your head, from your feet, around a corner...  not many cameras in this class can do that.7) Stitch Assist mode.  OK, this was a feature I liked in particular that you may not care about.  But I like to take panoramas, and with the T70, I was guessing how much overlap I had, what the exposure should be for each shot, etc.  With the Powershot S1, it locks in white balance and exposure on the first frame, then shows you 1/3 of the last frame in the next shot so you can line them up.  I can do hand-held panoramas all day!  :-)OK, so there were a few negatives that I'll share too:1) There's no hot shoe for my Vivitar flash, although you can buy a Canon flash unit for this model.  But I probably won't because I think the built-in ~15 ft. flash range will be all I need.2) Speaking of that... flash pictures that you take from about 5 feet and closer seem to be washed out in the highlights.  That may be because the sensor is reading the dark background and overcompensating.  But you can manually adjust the flash power, which I set to about 1/4 on the scale and that seems to cure the problem for close ups.3) A low-light focusing lamp would help.  I had some trouble on Halloween eve focusing outdoors with natural light.4) I think I like the pre-flash type of red-eye reduction rather than the little LED light that's on this camera.  It doesn't seem to take care of red-eye in all cases (like when people are not looking directly at the camera), but it works OK in most cases.I believe the newer Powershot S2 takes care of some of these issues, but then again, it's almost 2x as expensive at this point in time.When you buy this camera, you will need a case and a memory card for it.  I bought the Tamrac 5693 Digital 3 Bag here on Amazon, which fits the S1, an extra set of batteries, an extra memory card, and the camera's video cable.  I've heard that the Canon PSC-70 bag is on the small side for this camera.  The memory card I bought (here on Amazon again) was the SanDisk SDCFH-512-901 512MB Ultra II CompactFlash Card, which has plenty of space for what I need and is a pretty fast card.One other thing you'll probably want to buy is some NiMH batteries.  I didn't have a charger either, so I bought a package of 8 2500ma Energizer batteries and a nice Powerex MH-C204W charger for about $50 at [...]I came away with this whole setup for about $375, which I think was a great deal and well worth the convenience and quality that I got.  I considered the Panazsonic Lumix DMC-FZ4 too, but I liked the Canon features and the fact that it used cheaper AA batteries and CF card.  So the big 35mm bag sits in my closet now and this little camera goes everywhere with me.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Nice for the Price!", "unixReviewTime": 1131408000, "reviewTime": "11 8, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2UZ08JP9E384H", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "Christian Van Der Henst", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "I've been using point and shot cameras from Olympus and Sony.  They are good, but they still can't defeat Canon.  This Camera offers a lot of functions to play with, and everything can be manual controled.  The 10X zoom is something that you don't easily find in other cameras and it also gives you the oportunity to change lenses.  Get a big Compact Flash card and some rechargable batteries and you're ready to go.  It's only 3.2 mp, but it's what you really need because nobody is printing large pictures this days.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Good camera if you want to have full control", "unixReviewTime": 1105315200, "reviewTime": "01 10, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2Y8WPOQM3SH3N", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "Deborah Rutkowski", "helpful": [33, 34], "reviewText": "This beauty is brilliant! The body style is ergonomically pleasing and lightweight, the overall design is simple to use, it will satisfy a novice and professional alike, and the pictures are beautiful! Even the manual is well designed. My long search for the perfect camera finally came to an end.When I first took this camera out of the box I was in love with the design. Weight is important to me, and this camera balances beautifully. It's extremely lightweight and easy to grip. Obviously, a lot of engineering went into the body style. After trying out a myriad of cameras that fit my hand clumsily, this one fit like a glove. The only drawback is that it's meant to be gripped with the right hand, so it could take some adjusting for lefties. Otherwise, it's an ergonomic 10 out of 10.The overall design of camera options leads the pack. It won't take long to master the operation of this camera. The most used options have their own buttons, so you don't have to wade through menus all the time. It is loaded with features, and sometimes this makes a camera hard to master for a novice. Not with this one! If you want a point and shoot camera that you can set and forget, this camera is for you. If you are a hobbyist or pro who wants the ability to easily switch from automatic to manual operation, this camera won't disappoint. It is also a camera that can grow with you. With a ton of add-ons and interchangeable lenses, you won't have to shell out money for a new camera as your skills improve. The zoom is more than you get with most cameras, and having a viewfinder is a must if you like to shoot outdoors in bright light. There's even a vision adjustment on the viewfinder. You may have read criticism of the lens cap. If you read the manual, you will see that it's meant to attach to the neck strap, so you really don't have to worry about losing the cap as some reviews state. I would prefer, however, a more secure snap on cover.As we all know, the proof is in the pictures, and Canon is still delivering the goods. I immediately set out to shoot a little bit of everything. In my opinion, one of the hardest shots to get perfect with point and shoot is indoors at night with inconsistent ambient lighting. I used the low light option on the dial, and I was really impressed. The shots I took were very evenly lit and the flash hadn't overexposed my subjects. I took a picture of an outdoor scene through an indoor window using the zoom. The picture looked like it had been shot outdoors rather than from inside. I took a picture during the day in a well lit room with no flash and it was beautiful.If you buy this camera, do yourself a favor and spend an hour going through the manual. You will find out how easy it is to control the many options, so you will be more apt to use them. I even liked the manual design. There are separate manuals in Spanish and English, so you can dispose of the one you don't need.I know I will be happy with this camera for years to come. Some of Canon's cameras have become legendary in the photo world and still have an active life on Ebay years after their retirement. I believe this is one of those cameras.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The perfect camera for novice and professional alike", "unixReviewTime": 1113004800, "reviewTime": "04 9, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2NZVTTHAR94IK", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "Duncan Idaho \"Spend time with your kids.  It ...", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "I bought this for my wife who is a big time scrapbooker. This is the BEST camera as well as the best item I have ever given her for scrapbooking. The pictures are just as good as higher megapixel cameras. The swivel screen is more useful than you could ever think. If you use the option of partially pressing down the button prior to taking the shot you get lightning fast capture. If you want a great digital camera you cannot go wrong here. We have been using this for several months and for many different occasions with no prblems at all. We took it to Schiltterbahn (a waterpark) and it took amazing pictures. You could see the water droplets falling off of the kids. The zoom was so helpful. If the kids were on the other side of the lagoon we could easily zoom in to get GREAT pictures. My wife took shots of us going down waterslides and none of them were blurry. I mean these looked like professional pictures. We take it everwhere and use it at all times of day. Buy the camera! I am thinking of buying another.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "You will be so happy with this camera!", "unixReviewTime": 1098835200, "reviewTime": "10 27, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A2YC3NDZVOHZNS", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "E. Ramsey", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "For those reviewers complaining that the camera does not imprint the date/time on the image except when printing, please note that the date and time the image was taken and many other technical details are included in the EXIF data embedded in the JPEG image.  To view this information in Microsoft Windows XP, right-click the image, choose Properties, and look at the \"Date Picture Taken\" on the Summary tab.I intend to purchase the Canon PowerShot S2 IS when it is released at the end of June 2005.  I have been very happy with the three Canon point and shoot digital cameras I have owned.  Picture quality is excellent, and the Canon menu system is comprehensive and easy to use.The S1 IS does not include an autofocus assist lamp to help focus in low light situations.  I like making 8x10 inch prints, and three megapixels does not provide enough resolution for a full-quality print at that size.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Date is included in the image format", "unixReviewTime": 1117411200, "reviewTime": "05 30, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1Z7S9UMUK6VK", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "Juan A. Lucio \"juannyc\"", "helpful": [47, 51], "reviewText": "My experiences with Canon cameras have been excellent, and so far they achieve the best picture quality and best colors. Solid feel, portability, good ergonomics, simple menus, good software and attractive styling are features that Canon cameras have and I like, and the S1 IS, for the most part, is no exception.So why do I give it 3 stars?Simply put: IT DOES NOT FOCUS EFFECTIVELY IN LOW LIGHT CONDITIONS.  I feel this fact has been glossed over by many other reviewers. Just about all digital Canon cameras I know of have an Automatic Focus Assist Light or Illuminator. (A little beam of light projected by the camera so that it can achieve a rapid and sharp focus in difficult or low light conditions). The Canon Supershot S1 IS does NOT have an AF Illuminator. This omission makes it tough to shoot indoors, at least for me. Some say it takes longer, and yes sometimes it does, but often it just doesn't focus at all, especially when zoomed in on people. Perhaps I have been spoiled with my trusty Canon Powershot S100 camera (with an AF illuminator); it does an excellent job in low light and indoors.AN AF ASSIST LIGHT SHOULD BE AN ALL DIGITAL CAMERAS! I was \"iffy\" about buying this camera for that reason, but the reviews gave me the impression that this was not an issue. However it is an issue that one should be aware of, hence my review.Although you can focus manually (and very well too), and it has an automatic focusing bracketing feature, trying to get a spontaneous shot of someone indoors, at a party or at dusk becomes easier said than done. It will focus better on a still object or shooting with a wide angle in a dim setting.There are so many pluses of this camera; I won?t elaborate since other reviewers have detailed them rather well. My favorite is the variable speed and nearly silent zoom, which can be zoomed slowly during the excellent movie mode. It is also very fast to zoom to the full 10x with virtually no blurred images (handheld, with out a tripod) thanks to the built in Image Stabilization. This blurry image at 10x issue was a problem I had with my previous camera (Olympus C-740).I know that one digital camera can't do it all (at least not yet), but if the Supershot S1 IS could focus well in low light, then I would then say this one does it all. If you want an outdoor camera, or don't plan to take a lot \"happy snappies\" of friends and family indoors, then this camera is for you. For now it looks like I?ll just carry both of my Canons!PS: Unless you are going to be making huge prints (larger than 8 x 10) the 3.2 Megapixel resolution is more than adequate for most users. I would like 4 Megapixel... but that is not a deal breaker for me.UPDATE: 11/15/04Well I did find the camera that so far appears to do it all, the Nikon Coolpix 8800. It is amazing, and I recommend it as an alternative, worth the extra money! Focuses quickly in low light, and does have AF light as well as Vibration Reduction, 10 x Zoom, great movie mode and an excellent lens.UPDATE: 08/20/05Looks like Canon listened, the new Canon PowerShot S2 IS does have an AF assist lamp!", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Good, but not in low light conditions - No AF Assist  : (", "unixReviewTime": 1086998400, "reviewTime": "06 12, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A2SVC2CM5F007Q", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "K. Ammon", "helpful": [33, 33], "reviewText": "The Powershot S1 has all the features of my old Canon A60, but the 10x zoom with image stabilizer sold me. No more blurred photos! The diopter on the viewfinder is another unique feature that this bi-focaled person appreciates. Adjust it to your vision and images are focused perfectly in the viewfinder. The LCD screen can be flipped in different positions, which is handy.  Bonus: fold it down to keep it from getting scratched and full of fingerprints. It's a tad smaller than I'm accustomed to, but suffices.  The pop-up flash is handy, and again, is less likely to get damaged when down. The lens cap, when tethered to the neckstrap, pops right off when you turn the camera on. No more losing lens caps or getting the lens dirty and scratched. (Yes, I'm tough on my cameras.)The 3.2 MP size is perfectly suited to 8x10 or smaller photos. You don't need more than that for casual or semi-professional use. The 32 MB memory card is adequate, but purchase a 512 MB compactflash card and you are set.  Yes, it eats batteries, but purchase a set of rechargeable batteries and charger and you are set to go. I even bought an inverter for my car so that I can plug in the charger when on trips. The video feature is nice, but we use it rarely.The biggest selling points, for me, were:- Canon brand; reliable and well-built, good customer service- Compactflash memory; inexpensive and easy to find- uses AA batteries, not a proprietary battery- 10x zoom; get those close-up shots you can't get with a 3x- image stabilizer; people with shaky hands love this- Flip out LCD view screen- easy-to-use menus and controls- many settings available on top dial- manual focus available when in low-light- ability to add on wide-angle and telephoto lenses and filters- optional remote control- quiet operation; zoom and shutter not noisy like the A60- tripod mount on bottom- unit is not too bulky or heavy and fits in most camera bags- best features for digital camera in this price range[...]", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Canon S1 - best features for this price range", "unixReviewTime": 1106870400, "reviewTime": "01 28, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A178UHEFRPZ7XV", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "Kevin J. St Onge", "helpful": [33, 38], "reviewText": "I have long wanted a digital camera, this is my first. It allows for manual control of all settings (ISO, focus, shutter, aperature, exposure compensation, white balance, etc). Manual control over these settings makes for FUN photography (things maybe you never played with much on a 35mm because of film costs). The camera feels really wonderful in my hand; I could never get used to the pocket sized digital cameras, this has a pro-like grip, and the body is a very comfortable size (smaller than a pro SLR, but bigger than the average point and shoot digital camera).A few things that I don't like about the camera so far:While you can adjust focus manually, it's all done within the digital display via button pushing. I'd much prefer adjusting focus physically (ie by turning the lense fixture).  Some digital cameras allow for this.Movie mode delivers spectacular quality videos! but I found adjusting focus while shooting movies can be impossible (it appears you must rely on auto focus in movie mode). Virtually every setting is configured automatically in movie mode, which makes movies something I will avoid with this camera (but I didn't expect to get a video camera anyway, so not a big con here).The USB connection to the PC from the camera uses a special connector on the camera. This connection is very small, and it is difficult to insert the USB wire into it. I'm afraid something might break if this connection is used often. A Compact Flash card reader might be the best solution here, but that puts extra wear on your memory card :\\No AC adapter included ... only a 32MB Compact Flash card included (which will only hold something like 20 images on the highest quality setting).Overall, I am very happy with this camera as my first digital camera. I think it's shortcomings are very acceptable for the price tag. My photos are stunning! I'm a pro photographer over night!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Impressing product", "unixReviewTime": 1082764800, "reviewTime": "04 24, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A2IO1ESNSIAXG3", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "L. A. Kane", "helpful": [58, 60], "reviewText": "I've had this camera for about a year now and overall I'm still quite happy with my purchase. The drawbacks to this camera are common with all digital models I've tried and the picture quality is quite exceptional. Here's some more details...First the pros: It's very ergonomic, well-designed, and easy to use, even for first time digital camera owners like me. The 10x zoom works smoothly and very well. In good light the auto focus locks on quickly and the pictures turn out great, even when blown up as large as 8x10. With the right paper in the printer I cannot tell the difference quality-wise between these pix and my old film camera. I really like the flip out monitor screen for shooting pictures over crowds (e.g., at sporting events). It's very visible except in harsh, direct sunlight. The image stabilization works well, eliminating the need for a tripod in most situations. Sports mode gives clear action shots even when your subject is moving quickly. The self-timer is a nice feature too. Images are easy to download to the PC (with XP you don't even need the software that comes with the camera). The built in flash works better than I expected (up to ~10' away anyway).Now the cons: In low light situations the camera is extremely challenging to use. First off, the viewfinder is electronic and you cannot see what you are aiming at through it or the LCD monitor. In night or auto mode close-up pictures come out okay, you just have to guess at your aim. Longer shots do not work out well at all. At my son's Christmas concert last night I snapped 43 shots. 5 turned out well and 2 more were usable. The rest were garbage. Anytime the kids moved at all, the shot turned out blurry no matter what mode I had it set on (and I tried several), even with a tripod. This was extremely frustrating!! Further, like most digital cameras there is a significant delay between when you push the button and when the picture is actually snapped. It is very hard to take sports shorts unless you get lucky with timing or use the movie mode.Other stuff: you'll want to purchase a larger memory card. 32mb just doesn't cut it. I went with 256 and have been very happy. You also want to purchase some rechargeable batteries. This thing takes 4 AA's and really chews them up fast, especially when you are using the monitor and zooming a lot. Be sure to use the lens cap strap. It's designed to slide off when the camera is turned on (a convenience?) yet it tends to fall off at odd times since it does not snap in place. Don't buy the Cannon camera bag. It is poorly designed and overpriced.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Very good but flawed", "unixReviewTime": 1103241600, "reviewTime": "12 17, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A1CYTBE7LLUQ8F", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "Living in Budapest \"livinginhungary\"", "helpful": [11, 12], "reviewText": "Our PowerShot A20 served me and my wife extremely well. However, we upgraded to the PowerShot S1 mainly for the increased megapixels, 10x optical zoom, and ability to take better night photos. The S1 has not disappointed. It's taken excellent night photos. We've also been extremely pleased with the zoom. We're only beginning to learn the many features of our new camera. Also we have been pleasantly surprised with the battery life in the S1...we bought rechargable Energizer 2300mAh batteries. My only minor issues are with the lens cover. It falls off from time to time, so I'd highly recommend attaching it to the carrying strap. Also, I've never been a big fan of aiming with the display, so I was disappointed to find that the viewfinder is also an LCD. In bright sunlight it's sometimes hard to aim.Overall after two months of use we love the S1 and would highly recommend it.Additionally, based on reviews/recommendation of other S1 owners, we bought the Tamrac 5693 camera case. It's a great compliment to the S1.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Camera With Many Features", "unixReviewTime": 1103328000, "reviewTime": "12 18, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A1U5NWJOYH2QQH", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "Old geek", "helpful": [20, 20], "reviewText": "I have been an amateur photographer for many years.  My favorite type of photography is \"nature\", especially birds.  I used to mainly use a Nikon N90S with various lenses and such.  But that gets heavy and hot in the Everglades.I have been using the S1 now a month or two.  I absolutely love it.  The zoom power is wonderful for that long bird shot.  You lose some resolution using the digital zoom though, but that's expected.  It's a light camera but you can still handhold long shots thanks to the image stabilization.  I use a monopod most of the time now.It's almost like an SLR, with the digital viewfinder!  Using the back screen that most cameras have is difficult in bright sunlight.  The digital viewfinder in the S1 is still a minor difficulty in bright sunlight, but very usable.  All the functions are pushbutton, and settings visible in both screen and viewfinder.Functions at this price level are amazing.  I am very very happy with available options.  It has a \"one button preset\" where you can set one button to do a chosen function.  I use that button for setting ISO speed.I use a UV filter all the time with the special adapter.  Beautiful outdoor shots.Macro capability is very good.The S1 is not cheap...but it tries very hard to be a digital SLR.  And that is megabucks there...so the S1, in a way, is a bargain.It also has a true neck strap, not a hand strap, like most digital cameras.Picture quality is good.  I have my own website and pics are fine.  3.2megapixels is ok.  I think more sensor resolution must be coupled with better optics, otherwise no point in a 6mp camera with plastic lenses.  So the S1 is fine in this respect.  Good optics, adequate sensor.Battery life is good.  Some complain about battery life.  I find it good with 2200mah Nimh rechargables.  But those who complain don't realize the first few times you use a rechargable battery the battery only has limited capacity....so it ain't the camera, it's the battery.  If you get new batteries, charge them up and stick them in a flash light and discharge them like this a few times.  Then you will get good battery life in camera.I gave the S1 5 stars.  It deserves them.If you don't need all the features or long zoom, try the outstand \"A\" series by Canon.  The A75 is a great value.  I use an old A40, and A75, and the S1 for my digital stuff.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Wonderful camera...especially for nature", "unixReviewTime": 1095897600, "reviewTime": "09 23, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A7WM1RJQQ68AR", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "Olle Gladso", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "This camera takes unbelievably good pictures. True, 3.2 Megapixelsmay seem a little light, but the zoom and image stabilizationmore than makes up for this. Normal alkalines won't last verylong, but Canon is upfront about this and recommends using Nimh's.Canon also tells you straight up what kind of performance to expectwith flashcards. Might as well get a big high speed card up front.All controls are logically laid out and very easy to use. The enclosed user manual explains pretty thoroughly how to use basic as well as advanced features.Update as of 12/5/09My camera fell victim to the bad CCD-chip issue. However, Canon fixed it for free.They had a very quick turn-around and very knowledgeable and helpful staff.Additionally, somebody mentioned a slight degradation in performance after the repair.My experience is exactly the opposite, the camera is performing better than it ever did.I suspect upgraded firmware is responsible for that.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "What an awesome camera !", "unixReviewTime": 1098662400, "reviewTime": "10 25, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A3MOT34UE7PPY6", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "Rose M. Swinson", "helpful": [39, 39], "reviewText": "Let me tell you, straight out, this family is a digital family.  We've had digital cameras for years now and we've had quite an assortment.  Everyone, in our family, has one.My personal favorite, is the digital rebel.  I know you're asking, why is she reviewing this camera then?  Easy!  I wanted a camera that I could easily whip out and capture a shot with... but I didn't want the tiny handheld ones.  I wanted something that felt comfortable, in my hand.... yet.. wasn't heavy.  I was also looking for zoom.This camera fits that bill, perfectly! and at a great price too!To start, this camera runs on 4 AA batteries.  Usually, that's a turn off for me, but I picked up some 2300 mhz batteries and I can easily get 500+ shots out of a charge of those, w/ the LCD and the flash on.  With the batteries, this baby weights, about a pound.  While that may seem heavy, compared to the little tiny cameras and cell phones that are avialable these days.. Let me tell you.  That's not heavy.  It's got a great neck strap and the camera carrys comfortably on that, around your neck,  w/out weighing you down.The 10x zoom is real nice!  Now, I'm only using optical zoom, otherwise, with the digital kicked in, it would be a 30x.  I just rely on the optical.  This camera takes some VERY nice pictures with that zoom.  A picture worthy of the Canon name!  And you can capture such a nice picture because of the IS (image stabilization) that is built into this camera.  You will notice little (or no) camera shake when you have it fully zoomed in on something.  Admittedly, it seemed like it, with the first couple test shots I took.  I was looking through the viewfinder, aiming at something down the street.. and it seemed like I was waivering all over the place.  But when I downloaded the pictures.  I was VERY pleased.  Crystal clear!I have the found, that some cameras have terrible color saturation, w/ the picture right out of the camera.  This isn't one of them.  With the default settings, the blues (sky, water) are rich, tonal, and dimentional.  There's no red problems, when shooting reds, that I've noticed.  Sometimes reds will bleed out .. or not appear true.. and that's simply not the case.Indoor pictures.. I'll be honest.. W/ the built in flash, this little camera, kicks my $1K camera's behind!  The flash doesn't tend to wash out the subject (on the default settings).. skin tones are exactly what they are.  Little or no adjustments are needed, in my book.This camera is fast to start up, and write, to the CF card that it uses (buy a bigger CF card!).  It's got auto controls for those that don't want to think.  For those that want to learn a bit more about photography, it's got the F stops, and all that jazz..ALONG WITH...the ability to change your focal point.  You're not stuck in the middle of the frame.  If you want your subject off to the left of the frame..and the rest to be 'soft'... That's not a problem.  With a simple push of the button, your point of focus changes.I can go on.. but I'm sure you have the idea, after reading all these reviews.This is a great camera for the money.  While you maybe taking a step down, in megapixels, you're gaining the zoom ability.  The decrease in the megapixels, I feel, are not that noticible.In fact, this camera has all the features that I was looking for, in my higher end cameras. .. but for a fraction of the price.i wouldn't think twice about recommending this camera to anyone.  It's a great camera.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Powerful camera for the price", "unixReviewTime": 1098316800, "reviewTime": "10 21, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A11EXFO14WEJM1", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "Sudarshan Karkada", "helpful": [13, 15], "reviewText": "Overall I am very happy with the camera, but couldn't give it 5 stars because (1)No date/time imprinting function (2)Picture quality is only comparable to my old Pentax IQZoom point-and-shoot film camera.I will try to list pros and cons that are not discussed in other posts.Pros:1) Video format is AVI and can be easily played on computer.2) Tons of manual controls to set aperture, exposure, focus, etc.3) When doing manual focus, a window pops up with zoomed-in image so that you can see if the focus is good.4) Time lapse shooting and continuous shooting available (read online manual)5) Very versatile LCD. Can be flipped, twisted, and turned in many positions.6) You can take many pictures and stitch them together to make a huge picture (read the online manual)Cons:1) Regular AA batteries run out too quickly. NiMH batteries are working well.2) No functionality to imprint date/time on the image.3) You need high-speed (18X) CF to be able to shoot video in highest quality.4) Lens cap doesn't fit snugly, but can be tied to shoulder belt loop so you don't lose it.5) Doesn't fit in my existing digital camera bag - plan on buying a new one.6) LCD is too small.Recommendations:1) Bought a 4GB Hitachi MiniDrive ($170 @ outpost) and I am happy.2) Flash is adequate, but a slave flash ($20 @ Ritz) might help.3) When buying the bag, make sure it has pouches for spare batteries and CF cards. Also, make sure the camera fits in the main pouch.Updated On 12/27/2004:I bought \"Targus DPBC03 ProBlack Digital Camera Case Max\" camera bag from Amazon. S1 IS barely fits in the bag. There is a pouch to keep batteries. The pouch is big enough to hold CF card also. I am going to keep the bag, but you might want to consider buying a slightly larger bag.I tried the \"photo stitch\" functionality over the weekend. I shot two scenaries and stiched them. One came out very well - impossible to know that it is stitched. Other scene seems to need some manual work to be done - one of the shots in the series wouldn't merge well.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Very good camera, but not 5*", "unixReviewTime": 1103155200, "reviewTime": "12 16, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A9KKQBFNE2KWA", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "The Honest Conn Man", "helpful": [43, 45], "reviewText": "ALL THE REST OF THIS REVIEW MEANS NOTHING.  THE CAMERA DIED WHILE PROPERLY STORED IN ITS CASE WITH THE BATTERIES REMOVED.  IT NEVER WAS DROPPED.  IT JUST PLAIN DIED.  HAVING RECEIVED NO ABUSE WHATSOEVER, THE CAMERA'S DEMISE MEANS EITHER PLANNED OBSOLESCENCE OR CRUMMY CONSTRUCTION.  EITHER WAY, I'LL NOT BUY ANOTHER CANON SINCE I'M NOT THE ONLY ONE TO HAVE EXPERIENCED THIS.  I'VE DROPPED IT FROM 4 STARS FOR ITS SLUGGISHNESS TO 1 STAR FOR ITS POOR VALUE GIVEN ITS EXPECTED LIFE SPAN.While I am delighted by the camera's picture quality, wealth of features, and logic, there are some caveats. But, although this is just a 3.3MP camera, I think the color quality and resolution will satsify all but the perfectionists.The caveats are all really related to the pace of the focusing, especially when the zoom is used. Going from no zoom to a 10X zoom is to wait for a good two to three seconds for the focus to catch up. At first, the zoomed-in on object will be just a blur -- both to the viewfinder and to the picture itself if you opt to shoot before the focus catches up. And, in addition, there is -- zoom or no zoom -- about a second's delay between getting the frame in focus and getting the shot.So, I've taken off a star for the camera's speed. My objection is not about one to three seconds but about the loss of several candid shots you might otherwise enjoy.The other disadvantage is that the camera DOES go through regular batteries rather quickly. However, with rechargeable batteries, the battery life is several times greater tha with disposable batteries and quite good. (I took about 140 shots on vacation and spent a lot of time fiddling around with the camera in between shots without needing to swap out my rechargeable batteries.)If your primary reason for wanting the camera is to shoot animals, sporting events, or small children, it's quite possible that you'll be less satisfied with this camera than I am.On the other hand, there is more to love than the quality and color of the pictures you do catch. The features, which are many, are easy to use once you've read the manual to find which buttons do what. (This is NOT, as a few have written, a difficult camera to learn to use. You can and will be up and running with it in a short time. However, thanks to the wealth of features, the advanced features will take some additional time to learn. This seems reasonable enough to me. Excel is more difficult to use than a calculator and quite difficult to master in all its aspects. That's not because Excel (or this camera) is awkwardly designed. On the contrary, both are very well-designed. Excel is more difficult to MASTER (not use but master) than a calculator because it does so much more. So, of course, MASTERING all the features of this camera will take more time than MASTERING all the features of a disposable camera. Seems fair and logical enough to me.)Some of the features I especially like:- It is a cinch to disable the flash by simply cycling through the flash options afforded by the dial (i.e., \"diopter adjustment dial\") that is located, logically enough, right next to the flash. If you decide to shoot a picture off your TV or to shoot a lit Tiffany lamp at night or to capture just the candles on a birthday cake (and so on and so on), you'll love the ability to turn off the flash.- The default settings for the camera seem very logical -- the highest setting for photo quality, the disabling of the digital zoom, the enabling of the red-eye protection, etc. So, if you can't wait to start shooting, you'll start off with high quality shots and with setting that you'd probably want most of the time. (Your digital zooming can and probably should be done via software after you've captured the highest quality image with the optical zoom. This will give you the option to decide later whether you really want to give up the quality of the image for a closer look. If you use the digital zoom when you shoot, you've given up the option to back off for higher quality. If you decide that you'd rather give up the quality for a closer shot than the 10X optical provided, you'll get the same result via the included editing software.)- Macro photography requires no special setting. However, to avoid overexposed macro shots indoors, you may elect to use the zoom rather than to get right on top of your subject.- The included software provides the option to see what apertures and shutter speeds were used for each shot and whether or not the digital zoom was used. (It doesn't directly tell you whether the optical zoom was used.)- For those not adverse to reading, the Canon documentation is extensive.Final tip:Discover early the diopter ajustment dial next to the immediate left of the viewfinder. This is a focus for the viewfinder. The focus on the viewfinder was not clear until I discovered this little dial. Once adjusted, it has tended to stay adjusted.&lt;P(...)If the MAIN attraction of this camera is the stabilized 10X optical zoom, you might be surprised to find that it becomes the least desireable feature thanks to its slow focus. However, as one who has owned a Nikon and a Fuji in the past, I soon found that the Canon jumped to the head of the list for its picture and color quality -- as well as for its excellent additional features.And, oh yes, the camera is loads of fun. You can spend hours exploring its features and in discovering the advantages of its various modes. In just two days, the camera has me taking shots I've never been able to take before. I haven't mastered the camera, but I've acquainted myself with a host of new (i.e., to me) features already. More important, most of my pictures are coming out great. I can still come up with some duds, but that's not the camera's fault!SUMMARY: The camera is too slow to focus to rely upon for action shots, but -- WOW! -- it's a joy for most purposes.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Camera died after a couple of years -- no apparent reason", "unixReviewTime": 1087603200, "reviewTime": "06 19, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A32PP5VY9GEJ43", "asin": "B0001G6U52", "reviewerName": "WeaselsandCats", "helpful": [22, 23], "reviewText": "I bought this camera a few months ago and i am very happy with it. This camera has alot of features, and considering how many it has, its very compact.  Some of the features include:10x optical zoom:  This is a very nice zoom range, and it gives you alot of framing flexiblility.Image stablilizer: This is a very good stabilizer, especially for the movie mode.  Also, when you're zoomed in at 10x, it helps you keep the camera steadyManual Focus:  I guess this counts as a feature, but that being said, its not a very good one.  When you zoom in, it wont let you focus under two feet, which isnt very useful.  Also, the auto focus on this camera isnt so great, since it only has one point and doesnt have an AF assist lamp, so focusing right can be really annoying sometimesMovie Mode:  This camera has a GREAT movie mode.  The 30 frames per second really makes the movies look nice, plus the sound quality is better than most digital cameras.  The thing i really like, though, is that you can use the 10x lens to zoom while you're taking movies, just like a camcorder.  Now, the zoom isnt silent while your taking a movie, even if you use it at its \"reduced speed\" for the movie mode.  If you use the zoom's REALLY slow speed, though, it doesnt interfere with sound, so thats not really a problemPanoramas:  This camera helps you take a series of pictures to form a panorama.  It saves them as individual pictures, but the software the camera comes with to stich them is very easy to use and stiches the pictures nicelyTime lapse:  This camera can take time lapse shots; you can take up to 100 pictures, and its a nice mode if you want to make an interesting movieTheres probably alot of other modes i didnt get to, but when you get this camera, youll be trying to figure out all it can do for a long time.  If you dont want that though, this camera has a fully auto mode, which makes it just like a point and shoot.  On the other hand, if you want a camera that does EVERYTHING, this is probably it; you wont be disappointed either way", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Camera", "unixReviewTime": 1101427200, "reviewTime": "11 26, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "AAH3WWCS78BDM", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "Canuck", "helpful": [10, 11], "reviewText": "Having owned a canon a40(nice camera but only 2 mega-pixel),I bought a canon a75 and was fairly happy with it until itwas stolen. Now I bought the Canon A95, and it's a big improvement on the A75, much clearer pictures, better color saturation in the pictures, better build quality, and a few more mega-pixels which is nice for croppingpictures. So I my humble opion I would recommend this camerawithout reservation. And those looking at the A75 I would recommend spending the extra money for this model.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A Winner", "unixReviewTime": 1114473600, "reviewTime": "04 26, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1QDKO8ZFJZ509", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "Capt RB", "helpful": [27, 30], "reviewText": "Canon's A95 is another mixed bag from Canon. It's main goal is to try to be a G series camera for 300.00. In this regard it falls short in both speed and sharpness, but not by much. As with all P&S; cameras of any price, the A95 poses quite a few obstacles to the shooter. Focus lag, limited F-stop range, punchy flash are among them. On the other hand it has excellent color balance (a big problem for cameras like the Nikon 8800, ALL Panasonics, Konica Minolta Z5 and so on). Sharpness is average for a camera in this class. For sports, kid photography and any highly critical use, most advanced shooters won't be happy with anything less than a DSLR. I bought the A95 for use on the job and as a backup camera. On the other hand the average shooter will probably LOVE the A95. It's a remarkably well made camera capable of taking great shots with some practice. If you don't need giant prints 11X14 or larger, a camera like the A95 is probably a smarter buy than many of the prosumer units currently available. Also keep in mind that those long zoom cameras do best outdoors in bright light where their contrast based focus systems work well. The A95 works best OUT of it's full auto modes. Learn to use the manual settings and you'll be taking plenty of great pictures. I highly recommend the Canon A95, but do your homework carefully and try one if possible. It's a solid pick for a family camera, enthusiast seeking a well priced starter camera or as a backup for your DSLR.Pros> Superior handling and ergonomics compared to compacts> Reasonably sharp for mid size camera> VG AF system> Bayonet lens system for additional lenses> Nice viewfinder> Great swivel LCD> Easy manual control> Amazing color balance for a P&S;> Excellent macro mode> usable manual focus> Powerful flash> Solidly builtCons> Noise above ISO 100 as with all P&S; is limiting> Focus lag as with all P&S; limits use for getting fast kiddy pics and such.> Dual menu system sucks> Limited F-stop range just like most P&S; cameras> Camera is heavy with 4 AAs> mediocre movie mode> Flash blows highlights in AUTO modes in certain conditions> AF assist should be brighter> No remote option! C'mon!Compared to:The 8800: The Canon can't match the Nikon 8800's quality and lens no way-no-how, but it shoots faster and will get more shots in focus. It also has far better color balance than the 8800 by a royal mile. Outdoors the Canon can't compete at all. Indoors I'd rather shoot with the Canon.The Pentax Optio S5i: The tiny Pentax lens did very well by comparison, but the Canon has the edge for color and sharpness. Pentax had better low light AF, but longer focus lag.The Sony L1: I love the L1. It fails in ergnomics but it's a ultra compact anyway. If not for the memory stick pro I might have bought one. At 199.00 its a steal! The A95 won out due to being able to share my D70 cards.The Nikon D70: The Canon's only advantage over the D70 is it's size. For some applications, the Canon's swivel display might also give it a leg up. The D70 has no movie mode of any kind. Beyond that the D70 simply takes better pics than any P&S;/Prosumer. Happy shooting!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Solid Canon Entry", "unixReviewTime": 1114387200, "reviewTime": "04 25, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A4WEZJOIZIV4U", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "Chuck Bittner \"Disabled comedian & gamer!\"", "helpful": [16, 16], "reviewText": "This canon is a decent point-and-shoot digital camera. Its size is great you can pretty easily, stuff it in a pocket.  Now the price of this bad boy is getting up there about $350 at the time of this review.  If you need a point-and-shoot only look into the A85 for about a hundred less.The benefit of this camera is the flip out LCD screen, which is great if you want to shoot around corners and take self-portraits.  The Nikon that I own all have this.  I considered a must-have.  But is it worth an extra hundred that's for you to decide.The camera also has all the extras that make a little more powerful than your standard point-and-shoot. It is aperture priority and shutter priority selection, which is great. If you're new to cameras, shutter speed allows you to control how long the shutter stays open. So the picture you took his dark too dark to use. Just drop your shutter speed from 1/250 of a second to 1/125 of a second this will let in more light. And maybe salvage the picture.That's what makes these cannons so powerful and great if you want to go beyond the basics of point-and-shoot, but it still will be a great point-and-shoot camera. And the price in these cameras just can't be beat.you can't go wrong, one last bonus to note is that this uses four AA batteries and not a battery pack, which is totally important. If you're on the go and out of juice. No matter what camera you got your not taken pictures. You can buy AA batteries anywhere bonus!It has awesome case for only $5.95.  Search for Amazon item number: B00009U0XIHave fun and get it done!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "The perfect point-and-shoot camera with the extras", "unixReviewTime": 1106265600, "reviewTime": "01 21, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3N95F9U9YXTH5", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "cosmo \"failure is always an option\"", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "I did tons of research looking for the best digital camera, and as it was to be my first camera of this type, I wanted the most \"bang for my buck\" and something I could grow into as well as use right away. This was the best choice I could have made! I received the camera on Friday evening, by Saturday evening I was taking great, clear pictures. And by Monday was taking pictures like a professional.I love how I have so much control over the settings, or can just let the camera do it. My favrite favorite use of the camera has been the macro setting, and the flowers shots I have been able to take are incredible!!I had been sceptical about the folding view screen, but as was predicted in other reviews, it is a great feature.One last note, a number of reviews mention a \"flimsy battery door, and Flash Card door\". I have found neither one to be as bad as was said, and feel it should hold up to much wear.I would without hesitation recommend this camera to everyone, it seems to do everything that was said about it and more!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Camera!!!", "unixReviewTime": 1119398400, "reviewTime": "06 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3LC7ND5UJ23YL", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "Crispee", "helpful": [20, 20], "reviewText": "If you want to have everyone ooh and ahh over how \"cute\" and tiny your little silver camera is -- then this is not the camera for you.  Stick to the Elph.  But you will pay more for that cuteness and size.  This camera strikes a balance between convenience, picture quality, size and features that is unmatched in this price range.Like all digital cameras it won't make gorgeous pictures with bad lighting.  Take that as a fact of life.  Unless you carry 10 1k lights around with you - you're going to get some flat, fuzzy and perhaps slightly unfocused pictures in low light settings.  If you want great night shots go for the Prosumer type Canons and buy a tripod so you can use a wide aperture and long shutter speed.In the point and shoot realm you will have to just take a bunch of pictures and know that you will need a good program to really make them shine.  I recommend Photoshop Elements.  You won't find a better consumer level program.This camera takes normal AA batteries so it is a bit heavier than those that recharge the tiny battery in the camera.  With my Energizer rechargeables I never once ran out of charge in a day.  That is with taking hundreds of pictures and turning the camera on and off.  That is very good power management!This camera has a flip out screen for a viewfinder.  It is not the biggest screen you will find on a camera and that is one of the negatives -- but you couldn't have a flip out with a 2 or 2.5 inch screen.  Don't underestimate the usefullness of that flipout!  I can't tell you how many times I was able to get a shot because I was able to orient that every which way.  It is more than just flipping it out -- you can rotate it back and forth too.  And when you flip it around you can put it back in the camera just like all the others with the screen on the back -- plus the image flips to compensate!Image Quality - this is where this camera truly shines.  Colors are vibrant.  Details are crisp.  As long as you have enough light.  Under cloudy conditions or night time then you won't get as good of shots but most can be corrected after the fact if you know how.I have a Sony camera which cost me over $1000 and this camera beats it for quality of photos.  I was also watching a guy in front of me at a concert taking pics with his brand new sleek flat Sony and every picture was blurry.  Mine weren't exactly pro quality but they were better.  Again -- low light is tough for a little point and shoot.You can fit this camera in your pocket if you have big pockets that are loose.  Tight jeans -- forget it.  But you won't scratch this screen like I've heard Elph owners complain about.  I suggest going to a store and trying to put it in your pocket.Bottom line - If you want a great quality camera and don't mind it not being the latest and thinnest camera out there you can't go wrong with this.  To get the same image quality you would have to buy other cameras for several hundred more.  Amazon has a really great price for it too.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Not sleek but great pictures!", "unixReviewTime": 1119052800, "reviewTime": "06 18, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1L306DUBMJ7BE", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "Isaac B. Powell \"sock puppet\"", "helpful": [29, 29], "reviewText": "buying the a95 was one of those rare purchases that far exceeds what you had hoped for and expected.the other reviews on this camera explain enough of the detail of its workings and quality, but i will mention what impressed me with this one.- the fold out lcd (makes taking photos of yourself easy)- the macro zoom function (i can get decent shots at less than 6 inches with this)- the picture effects (sepia, black and white, vivid colour etc)- f.stop, iso speed and shutter speed (you can adjust these all manually!)- uses 4 AA batteries (cheap as chips to buy rechargeables and when they get old, just get some new ones - no mucking around with dodgy internal batteries - and you get about 400 pictures per charge, even more in low power mode)- panoramic images (can take a bunch of shots in panoramic mode, then the software included, which i think is great, stitches them all together beautifully to make great panoramic images!) you can even turn then into quicktime vr movies!- easy to use- plenty of preset lighting situations to select fromthe only downside to this camera is the 3x zoom, but i'm not a nature photographer or a hunter, so it doesn't matter to me.buy it and be well pleased!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "even better than we expected", "unixReviewTime": 1107648000, "reviewTime": "02 6, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1UPVJ7T3GXQDU", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "JGNIX", "helpful": [14, 16], "reviewText": "This camera is really good; First off it is fairly easy to use; and hand someone when you want someone else to take the picture. The display is really clear; the pictures come out in great quality.The zoom is good as well as the ability to swivel the screen for pics at any angle.The software is also good it installs what it needs and doesn't start any garbage @ boot up. It is also a good size not to small as to slipp out of your hands but not to big. (although it doesn't fit in a pocket)Overall it is a good camera that takes quality pictures.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Camera; Plenty of features; easy to use; Good Software", "unixReviewTime": 1103328000, "reviewTime": "12 18, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A3DOQ1AI1MU74K", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "jmindito", "helpful": [57, 61], "reviewText": "This Camera is really great product, which for the price is a really good value for money.What I Like:+ Picture Quality+ Software bundle+ Easy to use+ Lot of Manual and automatic controls+ Uses standard AA Batteries+ Swirl LCD Screen+ Portable size, solid feelCould be improved by Canon:~ Higher MB CF Card with the package~ Rechargable Batteries & Charger~ Case", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Camera. Great Value", "unixReviewTime": 1099612800, "reviewTime": "11 5, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A32D3SIQGJX2SV", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "Kimmy11", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "I won't get into the specs of the Canon A95 as you can find that directly on the product page. I frequent photo forums as digital photography is my hobby and I wanted to be sure that anyone who is looking to buy the Canon A95 in the near future knew that the NEW MODELS (Canon A610/A620)are debuting in October 10, 2005. Btw, you can see the specs for those on their product page as Amazon is taking preorders for both the CANON A610 and A620. The Biggest Improvement in my mind will be the incorporation of the Much Faster DIGIC II Processor to reduce the shutter lag between shots.  It will also have VGA(640x480) Video Capability. It will still use 4 \"AA\" Batteries as well! SO, if you are in the market for the Canon A95, you just might want to wait a month or so!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Heads-Up : the replacement model for A95 will be Available  on 10/10/05", "unixReviewTime": 1125273600, "reviewTime": "08 29, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A185GLK2OCPEVP", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "K. Smith", "helpful": [37, 37], "reviewText": "I've had the A95 for about 2 months now and I've been extremely pleased. It is one of those rare cameras that can serve as an excellent and simple point-and-shoot (for my wife) or can be used in such a way so as to satisfy people wanting more control over their photography (for me!). I have owned and used several digital cameras (mostly Nikon, Olympus, and Kodak) and I am continually awed by the amount of options that this camera allows you to mess with to get your perfect picture.A few comments on some of the many benefits of the A95:- Picture quality. This camera has great picture quality. What more can I say? I suppose there is some of that famed Canon \"purple-fringing\" but it is never really an issue for me and the kinds of pictures I generally take.- Vari-angle LCD. I was a little skeptical of the swivel \"Vari-angle\" LCD probably because I thought it would be flimsy or just be a hassle, but now I don't think I could ever own another camera that doesn't have it. It gives you so many options! You can just flip the LCD around to be used just like any other digital camera, or you can maneuver it to take perfectly-aimed photos from above your head, or holding it to your side, or to take a picture of yourself, or even to look around a corner ;). Even if you only use it to turn the LCD inward to protect the screen when you store the camera, this feature is worth the money.- Uses AA batteries. You can buy rechargable AAs and a charger, but you also have the freedom to not have to use expensive propritary batteries. Our batteries went dead while sight-seeing on vacation, so we just bought a pack of AAs at the first store we saw. It's hard to think of any store that doesn't sell AA batteries.- 5 MP. This camera is such a great value for a 5 megapixel camera. When I was shopping for a new camera, I figured I'd have to settle for 3 or 4 MPs for the price range I was looking for. My 8 x 10s look amazing!- Compact Flash Cards. This still seems to be one of the cheapest formats of flash storage media and it also seems to be the sturdiest. SD is smaller, but generally more expensive and flimsier. MS is proprietary to Sony so nobody else uses them. I'm able to use CF cards for many things other than just my camera so they are an even bigger value to me.- Fast startup and picture taking.- Well-written and easy-to-understand manual.Some relatively minor gripes:- It is rather large and heavy for a point-and-shoot camera. The weight doesn't bother me at all and I'm willing to sacrifice smaller size for more functions/control.- CF cover is flimsy and kind of tricky to close. You get the hang of it, but I still worry I'll accidentally break it one of these days. The camera won't operate if the CF door is open (although it seems you could easily \"trick\" the camera into thinking the door is closed). While I worry about this, I've yet to hear of anyone actually breaking it.- Battery cover is also a little awkward to close, but it's not flimsy where I think it'll break or anything.In short, this is a great all-around camera that offers you a lot of control over your pictures. In this price range, no other camera even comes close.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great features and control for a point-and-shoot price", "unixReviewTime": 1104969600, "reviewTime": "01 6, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3EKLO0WDCM01F", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "L. Wimberley", "helpful": [15, 15], "reviewText": "I recently replaced my Canon S400 4MP Elph with the Powershot A95.Right away, the main differences are:Larger size, partly due to the use of 4 AA batteries.  the compartment where the batteries are stored make the camera have an excellent grip which makes the camera friendly for larger hands then the Elph series does.  (I'm a woman in my 20's, and I have small hands so this doesn't really affect me)The batteries, being AA's, not a rechargable Lithium Ion like the Elph, can be easily be bought at any store that sells AA's cheap if you run out while you're on vacation (which will happen often, as digital suck the life out of normal AA batteries)Saying that, I STRONGLY encourage you to purchase rechargable Ni-MH batteries.  I bought the Sony Super Quick BCG34HC charger, which also comes with 4 2300 Ni-MH batteries.  The batteries lasted about a week and a half of heavy picture taking with the the flash on and off, along with the display on.  For and extra twenty bucks on Amazon, it's worth it.The LCD is slightly larger.In addition, the LCD also flips out and around!  You can easily frame and take pictures of you and a friend without having to use the self timer.The manual features are far supieror to the Elph series.  The A95 Powershot allows manual focusing!  And aperature settings!  This is a far improvement and gives you a little more creative control over images.  The camera still has a complete auto setting should you just want to use it as a simple point and shoot.The lenses on the Powershot A95 are interchangable.  You can buy telephoto lenses for it (though you must also purchase an adapter for any interchangable lenses for this camera)  I think the idea is cool, but the lens and the adapter are NOT cheap.  If you bought the camera and the lenses and the adapter, you could spend an extra fifty or hundred dollars and then just get the digital rebel which would allow total creative control with fully manual settings.  Again, a fun idea, but maybe try to find the lenses used at a cheaper price.The camera turns on quickly like the Elph, and has the same small shutter lag.  It's not bad, but in low light it takes extra time to focus.The only qualm I really have with this camera is the LCD screen is WAY too bright.  Images look washed out and have innaccurate colors on the LCD screen then when you get them on the computer and print them out.  And the worst part about it is, you can't fix it.  There is NO way to adjust the brightness level of the LCD screen.  On the S400 Elph, you could adjust the brightness level of the LCD screen, on the A95 you cannot.  I like seeing my images how they will look when I am changing controls so I gett a correct picture the first time (the whole point of a digital camera!)  I think this is an oversight on Canons part and the brightness option should be included on future models.Basically, what it comes down to is, if you want a camera just for keeping in your purse and using it at parties and simple settings and the like, I would always reccomend the Canon Digital Elph Series.  They're small and have incredible image quality.However, if you want more createive control and the ability to use some manual controls, by all means buy this camera.  It can be easily used as a point and shoot, but it really is so much more.All in all, I'm very happy with the camera and all of the scene modes and extra controls.  It's a nice step up from the camera I was using.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent step up from my S400 Elph", "unixReviewTime": 1111449600, "reviewTime": "03 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2E75MXMY3MPBP", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "LygerTail", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "I purchased the camera thru \"Amazon affiliate\" and recieved the camera about a week after I ordered it. Was in perfect condition and I have used the camera for about 2 weeks now.It's a great digital camera for the price and picture quality. It came with it's uploading software and I use the camera along with my Mac G4 and Photoshop 7- it's compatiable and I haven't had any problems so far. Bought it along with (2) 512 MB Sundisk flash cards and on the highest quality setting the cards can store about 200 pictures on each. People say the 32 MB card is worthless but for me it's a decent back up card. On a lower setting it can produce about 30 pictures but atleast I have some peace of mind I wouldn't go home empty handed.I even dropped the camera two days ago on asphalt (!) and it still working fine. Not on pupose of course!- my camera bag was open and after trying to run across a street, it flew out and my heart sank when I  heard the plactic hit the street.  Other than some chipped paint and some nasty stratches on the out lens ring and a gash on the focus button/wheel it works fine as of this writing. It seems OK and I'm grateful for my luck. Hopefully all of the Canon Powershot Digital camera are made as tough as this one. Satisfied.My only complaint is plastic doors that enclose both the batteries and CF cards is made of plastic and feels rather cheap. I'm worried more about them becoming weak and brittle as the camera ages. But hopefully it's built to last.Very pleased so far- just wish I hadn't dropped it! Arrgh!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Quality Digital Camera", "unixReviewTime": 1121558400, "reviewTime": "07 17, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1IVAVV6VG0D1Q", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "Matthew", "helpful": [16, 17], "reviewText": "I have only had this camera for a week, but I have had the opportunity to shoot photos in many of the modes available. The photos are sharp with true colors. I have not noticed any purple fringing the the reviews speak of...at least yet. The camera feels solid to hold and feels very well made. The swivel display is sweet!! My old camera was a Kodak DX3900 which served me very well but the A95 is in a whole different class. I have a Canon ip4000 printer and the photos come out excellent. I paid $309 on Amazon, a great price for such a feature rich 5 MP camera.12/2011 Lets jump ahead 7 years !! This camera has continued to do very well even now that it is \"dwarfed\" by the new technology. One major kudos to Cannon: About 4 years ago, I noticed blue vertical streaking on photos taken of my son in snow. Very noticeable in the white areas. I called Canon to told me that this particular camera had known issues with its sensor. It was sent back to Canon and had the sensor replaced with an updated new sensor. The camera has been better than ever since.This camera was more than 3+ years out of warranty and Canon stepped up to the plate.Just ordered a new Lumix LX-5 so this baby will be retired or given to one of my kids.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent camera....", "unixReviewTime": 1102896000, "reviewTime": "12 13, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A14VXKTBKGZ9SD", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "Michael Marco \"friendly neighborhood tech guru\"", "helpful": [25, 25], "reviewText": "Here are my thoughts, point-by-point:- 5.0 megapixels of Canon quality. Canon's reputation for high-quality images is well-deserved. You may find less expensive 5.0 megapixel cameras out there, but if you get a Canon, you'll know where the extra money went. And you won't regret spending a penny of it.- Ease of use. If you're a complete newbie, you can just set the camera in Auto and snap away. But if you're looking for a little more control, it's at your fingertips, and it won't take long for you to learn the menu system. If you've used other Canon digital cameras, you'll feel right at home. (But of course, if you want to know the A95's functions inside and out, there's no substitute for reading the well-written manual.)- Lots of shooting options. There are some 14 different shooting modes available to cover just about every conceivable situation. Personally I use only two or three, but it's nice knowing they're there.- A great lens. Canon has long been known for quality lenses, and the one in the A95 is no exception. It features 3x optical zoom and a maximum aperture of f/2.8--shoot near and far, and in a wide range of lighting conditions. (Quick tip: to shoot indoors or in low light without using the flash or a tripod, change the ISO setting.)- Flexible (but somewhat slow) autofocus. The autofocus system automatically selects between nine points, making it easy to capture off-center subjects with ease. Unfortunately, it can be tricky getting subjects in motion, especially in low-light situations. This takes practice and a bit of trial-and-error to overcome. Hopefully Canon will address this shortcoming in the future.- \"Vari-Angle\" LCD. This is the feature that won me over. It can be manipulated very much like many camcorder LCDs, flipped out from the camera body and turned to face a wide range of angles. With the screen turned to face the same direction as the lens, you can even use the A95 as a mirror! And when the camera is not in use, the screen can be folded into the camera body, protecting it from damage. The screen measures 1.8\" diagonally and is clear and crisp, even in harsh sunlight.- Size and weight. The A95 is a lot of camera in a little package--at least compared to a full-featured digital SLR. It's compact, but not pocket-sized (unless you have rather large pockets). If you don't already have a gear bag or a purse, I recommend getting a case with a shoulder strap if you plan on carrying it around a lot. Also, the A95's got a decent amount of heft to it. Personally I don't mind the weight; coming from the professional world, I like the feeling of something solid in my hand.- Batteries and battery life. One reason the camera weighs a bit is because it uses four AA batteries. Opinions vary on this, but I consider this a positive. If my batteries die, it's easy to drop in a new set and get going again. The A95 will use either conventional alkaline batteries or NiMH rechargeables; I recommend picking up a set or two of the latter. They're available cheap from a wide variety of places (something I can't say about the proprietary rechargeables found in most other digital cameras, other Canon models included).My only complaint in this department is that there's no visible battery life indicator on the LCD; you're only told when a battery set is on its last legs. I wouldn't worry too much about this. You can get hundreds of shots out of a single set of alkaline AAs and can get even more out of a set of rechargeables, and you can extend battery life further by limiting your use of the flash and LCD. But keep a spare set handy, just in case.- Uses CompactFlash memory. The A95 uses CompactFlash Type I, which is compatible with Canon and Nikon's digital SLRs. If you already have a digital SLR, you'll be able to share memory cards (as long as they're Type I, not the thicker Type II). If you're a pro looking for a camera for casual use, this is something to think about.You'll definitely want to pick up a high-capacity card; you'll only get about 10 pictures, if that, out of the included 32 MB card. I recommend at least a 512 MB card--the bigger the better. I also recommend getting a USB CompactFlash card reader for your computer. Connecting the camera to your computer directly drains battery life (unless you have an AC adapter, not included with the camera). Use that battery life to shoot more pictures!- Attention to detail. Canon's A series may be their \"value\" line, but there's nothing cheap about the feel of this camera. Every button gives solid tactile feedback. The shutter has a well-defined distinction between half-down (to focus) and full-down (to shoot). And thanks to the built-in orientation sensor, photos shot vertically are oriented properly in playback mode. Little touches like these make all the difference.ConclusionThere are cameras that are smaller, lighter, better-looking, less expensive, and with more features. If you want smaller, lighter, or better-looking, try the Canon S or SD series. If you want something less expensive, try the other A series models like the A510. If you want more features, move on up to an SLR like the Digital Rebel. But it's hard to find a camera that can balance all of these considerations as well as the A95. It's a rare gem of a camera that has something for everyone--ease of use for a beginner, more features and control for an amateur or professional. And given the rich feature set and Canon's renowned picture quality, it's an incredible value.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Phenomenal!", "unixReviewTime": 1122422400, "reviewTime": "07 27, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2JZPBQCSRM92G", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "mom to 3 boys", "helpful": [19, 19], "reviewText": "I had big huge description on what was so wonderful about the A95 then I realized I was just repeating what all the other reviews were saying about this camera. Here something different I can add....I bought and return 4 different digital cameras before I got the powershot A95. The Reason I went through so many digital cameras was because I own a SLR Canon EOS Rebel (I paid $500 for it 8 yrs ago) I absolutely Love my Rebel all my picture come out beautifully clear and I'm Never disappointed but it's not digital. I was so stuck on my rebel that when I used the Kodak, Minolta, Nikon & HP digital cameras (in same price range as canon) they just didn't measure up to my Rebels different setting & photo quality and that is why I would return them!!!Finally I realized I need to try a canon digital and pick the powershot A95 (because of it's small size). I LOVE this camera you won't see me returning it!!!  What I like the most about this digital over the others I've owned is that it has all the setting my rebel has, Plus 8 more setting my rebel doesn't.****For those who have used a Rebel before, if you haven't it's not as hard to use as it sounds below****With my Rebel to get a better blur free photo of my kids moving, I usually had to set the aperture myself, then adjust the ISO then set the filtration (which you can also do on powershot A95) But with the A95 you just set your dial to SCN then pick \"kids & pet\" & it does all the work for you, the picture will come out Blur free every time & you won't have to mess with any apertures, ISO or anything. It also has \"indoor\" setting, if you have a Bright lamp on (like 4-- 100watt bulb fan light) on in the house you can turn the Flash OFF (trust me turn it off and you won't have to worry about red eye either) and the indoor setting will make your picture come out like you used a flash, it's better then Auto setting!!!I agree with the others reviews that the powershot A95 does get red eye sometime (just like you will with any digital with a Built in flash). Here is a tip to keep in mind, the ONLY way to guarantee zero red eye in every picture is you'll need to buy a Digital with an -------Attachable flash------- (means you can take the flash off the camera) attachable flashes have more power, more light and better reflection against red eye but those type of digital cost about $1,400+ !!! For under $300 for powershot A95 you won't be disappointed.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "If you own a Rebel you love the A95", "unixReviewTime": 1110758400, "reviewTime": "03 14, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A19IRFS6D36YYQ", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "Niraj", "helpful": [18, 28], "reviewText": "This is a great camera. i m extremely happy with its performance. Only one regret is that i ordered it thru dell. it took abt 19 days to recieve my packet. my word \" never order anything from dell or get things shipped from DHL\" they r the worst.Thanks", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Camera", "unixReviewTime": 1102636800, "reviewTime": "12 10, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A1J3C36YAZG9TQ", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "N. Shahi", "helpful": [10, 22], "reviewText": "I did a lot of research before actually settling on this A 95 from Cannon.  The pictures look great on the LCD screen and if you hook them up on the TV, but when you download them on the PC and look at them, they kind of look dull. It was so disappointing to see the same pictures that were so vibrant and colorful on the LCD screen and on TV, look dark and lifeless.I played with the camera by increasing the resolution and the compressoin of the picture, but to no affect.  I took with many different lighting (indoor and outdoor) but I still couldn't get the pictures to have some life when I downloaded them on the PC.I finally returned the camera. I am back to my Nikon SLR and Film rolls until I get a good Digital. I am now thinking of trying for the Nikon Digital SLR. The only thing is those are not easy to carry..", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Pictures don't look good on the Computer Screen", "unixReviewTime": 1115251200, "reviewTime": "05 5, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A30OEYFBSBI2P5", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "RF", "helpful": [500, 511], "reviewText": "The A95 is an EXCELLENT follow up to the A80, and offers some very nice improvements.  The most noticeable is the jump to 5 megapixels at $100 lower MSRP than the A80 when it came out!  Then there is the larger rotating LCD that is now useable in low light, scene modes for those who don't like to tinker with the settings, and the print/share button to make things easier.  For those who don't know, scene modes are easy-to-access presets of a combination of manual adjustments, optimized for shooting in different situations such as when you are indoors, at the beach, taking shots of kids, shooting at night, or shooting fireworks, etc.  There is also the addition of the Flexi-Zone feature, which lets you choose one of the 9 autofocus spots, so you can focus on non-centered objects!  This is usually a feature only found on much higher priced cameras.  The camera features full manual controls over shutter speed and aperture, manual focus, saturation, exposure compensation, custom white balance, ISO, metering, and a histogram in playback mode.  I know most people think they won't ever use some of these, but when you have an important shot that just isn't coming out, you'll be really glad you have it (or wish you did).  For those who don't know, control over shutter speed means you can use a fast shutter speed to capture fast action or you can use a slow shutter to avoid using a flash or for taking shots of night scenery like a city-scape.The areas where the Canon A75, A85, and A95 really excel at are:Being fairly small(small price tag too!) for a camera with this many features and having picture quality this good.Creative shooting:  this is a great camera for those who want to do creative shooting but can't afford to plop down $600+ for a Canon G6 or more for a Digital SLR.  It's got all of the most important controls, and with your memory card, you can do all the creative shooting and experimenting you want virtually free compared to using film.  It's even expandable with telephoto, wide angle, or close up conversion lenses and there's also the waterproof casing.  One other plus is the flip-out rotating LCD screen, which is VERY useful when your camera is on a tripod, is low to the ground, or when the camera is pointed up but below shoulder height, because you can simply flip the LCD screen to the proper viewing position instead of getting down behind the camera.  You can also use it to shoot over peoples' heads and use it to get a preview when you are doing self portraits.All Canon cameras also come with an excellent software package that lets you stitch panoramic photos, retouch photos or rescue those that came out wrong, add special effect, and view thumbnails of pictures so you don't have to open them up to see what the picture looks like (good for those who are using an older version of windows, I know there are still a lot of you out there).  The best part is that it's free!  It does more than Kodak's software(which is pretty decent), you have to pay $20 to get the better version of Olympus's software, and Sony's editing software is pretty much non-existent.  Those who already have Photoshop won't be excited.For those of you who are concerned that the camera doesn't come with rechargeable batteries, don't worry, it's really not a big deal.  Good rechargeable AA's, type NiMH are super cheap at around $10-$15 for 4, compared to $50 for Lithium Ion battery packs, and at that price, everyone can afford a spare set, which is really important to have.  I've seen people who bought much crappier cameras at the same price, just because they came with rechargeable batteries - not a smart choice in my opinion.Yes, there is the problem with purple fringing, but it's not a very common problem and most people either don't know what it is or don't even know think it's much of a problem when they see it.  Some people think it looks cool.  With full control over aperture, you have the ability to get rid of it or at least reduce it.  Compared to the problems that other manufacturers have with their cameras, I'd take a bit of purple fringing over noise, soft/fuzzy images, and over-sharpening any day!If you are looking to spend much less but want to get pretty much the same camera at 4 megapixels, check out the Canon Powershot A85 or the 3 megapixel A75.  you lose the rotating LCD though.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent camera, great value", "unixReviewTime": 1095292800, "reviewTime": "09 16, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A12DLJESJKM1OQ", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "Roy Chan", "helpful": [32, 33], "reviewText": "Pros: Larger LCD screen with enhanced resolution, loads of manual/creative photography options, AA Batteries, terrific ergonimics, outstanding picture quality, versatile controls, Price vs. Features/Quality is unbeatable.Cons: Some minor chromatic aberration (purple fringing) and very high noise levels at ISO 400, no RAW mode, the camera eats batteries (with LCD use); included flashcard is too small for enthusiasts.Summary: The A95's 3X lens exhibits some minor barrel distortion at the wide-angle end of the zoom range, but no visible pincushion distortion at the telephoto end. There is also some noticeable chromatic aberration in high contrast color transition areas, but that is pretty much par for the course with all digicam zooms. My only real complaint with the A95 is the horrible noise levels at ISO 400, noticeably worse than the noise levels of the A80 at ISO 400. My friend says he's heard that the A95 has significant redeye problems, but we didn't shoot any portraits and only used the flash in fill mode so I can't address this issue. Basically, the A95 is a truly worthy successor to the nifty little A80. At this point in time, the A95 is an almost ideal digital camera, so if you've been searching a \"does it all\" general use five megapixel digital camera, the A95 is probably your best option.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Value, Quality and Power thTat Will Turn Your Pics into Art!", "unixReviewTime": 1103155200, "reviewTime": "12 16, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "AGHZXQL9F94T9", "asin": "B0002OD3JY", "reviewerName": "superman2k3 \"superman2k3\"", "helpful": [21, 22], "reviewText": "A95 is an excellent choice for a 5MP digital camera on it own. But Canon has fully redesigned the Powershot A series to make it lighter (uses only 2 AA batteries now), smaller and with 4x optical zoom in A510/A520. Its a tough choice between A520 and A95 now.Pro's,1. Very good image quality.2. 5 MP and 3x optical zoom (A520 is the new 4MP/4X version).3. Priced right, unlike some overpriced digicams out there.4. Works on normal AA batteries (buy rechargeable ones for extra life and lower cost), unlike expensive & hard-to-find propreitary batteries.5. The menu on the Canon cameras is light years ahead of most other manufacturer's. Lots of manual options and scene modes.6. Battery and SD card doors seem to be of above average quality.7. LCD screen is bright and fluid.8. Uses standard SD cards, unlike propretary memory cards like Memory Stick or xD card.9. Can attach extra lenses if one buys the adaptor for it.10. Actual LCD screen looks nicely protected below a plastic plate.11. Flip out LCD for hard-to-shoot shots.12. Better build quality, IMO, than newer A510/A520.Con's,1. The camera is very thick & bulky (uses 4AA batteries).2. Only 3x optical zoom, compared to 4x on newer A series.3. Doesn't have that cool-ness like iPod or Elph series.4. Weak flash and redeye remain an issue, a compromise for small overall size.You gotta spend more money to buy Elph series for more pocketability & style. This will be replaced with smaller, lighter 5MP/4x A series camera soon.However if you find this for an attractive price, go ahead. You can't go wrong with Canon. Just check out the top sellers list right here on Amazon!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Excellent camera but approaching end of life cycle.", "unixReviewTime": 1111190400, "reviewTime": "03 19, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A22Z1Z8F5GA40S", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "A Reader", "helpful": [67, 69], "reviewText": "I wanted to get a new camera for our upcoming trip to Greece. My basic requirements were that it be an ultra-zoom and that it have image stabilization (ultra-zoom isn't much good without it unless you always use a tripod. If you do, you can save about [...] by foregoing IS). I quickly learned that the current sweet-spot of the market for this class of camera is 5 M pixels, so I further narrowed my search to that. The choices were: Panasonic Lumix DMC F20 and F5; Konica Minolta DImage Z5; Sony CyberShot DSC H1; and Canon Poweshot S2 IS. All cameras in this class use an electronic viewfinder (EVF), which I'm not as fond of as optical.I quickly dismissed the Konica because it takes very mediocre pictures. The images just can't compare to anything else in this class in crispness or low noise.The big hurdle for cameras in this class to get over is chromatic aberration. For a lens to be able to bend light to a proper focus across the color spectrum at a zoom of 1x to 12x is a terrific challenge. At the long zooms, lenses tend to show a color \"fringe\" around edges if they aren't exceptionally well made. Of the remaining cameras, Canon was the worst of the lot on this. I have an SD-200, which is an ultra-compact with 3x zoom, and it has a bit of a problem this way. So I was not surprised that the long zoom from them would also have this problem. The Sony is not too bad at this, but chromatic aberration is clearly present at higher zooms. The Panasonic's Leica lens is the stand-out in this regard.As to LCD, the Sony has the largest and brightest of the displays. The Panasonic is second-largest (2-inch screen) and adequately bright. The Canon is the smallest, at 1.5 inches, but has the virtue of folding out and twisting around to allow you to take pictures from odd angles, using it as the viewfinder. Also, it folds into place for storage with its back to the outside word, so its protected against bumps. The Canon is the least visible of the LCDs in bright light, and the size is pretty small for reading menus. For me, each of the LCDs was good enough, and none was ideal.All cameras of this class image-process the data before you ever see a picture. By default, Sony processes their images way too much. They smooth the noise, and then put back the appearance of sharpness by (what I presume to be) unsharp masking. You can see the Gibbs effect on sharp transitions (the image looks like water is lapping against the sharp edge). I find this very irritating. But the images show absolutely no noise, and at first blush look like they are very sharp. I think Sony does this to impress the unwary with \"image quality\" that isn't really there. Canon chooses a middle path on processing by default, and Panasonic allows their wonderful lens' resolution to come through the images, at the expense of higher noise than the other cameras show. All cameras allow you to adjust the processing settings, so this is just their choice for out-of-the-box. I strongly prefer the Panasonic default to the others. I can always smooth the images in PhotoShop if I like, but I can't retrieve the native resolution once its been smoothed away.Manual focus is important to me. The Sony has a rather clunky way of getting at manual focus (keep pushing a button near the shutter button until the viewfinder shows a distance bar, then you can use the rocker switch on the back to focus.) Canon is better. There is a button by the lens to switch to manual focus, and then use the back rocker switch to focus. The FZ5 doesn't support manual focus, so this was when I dropped it from contention. The FZ20 has a switch at the side of the lens that puts it in manual mode. Flick the switch all the way down if you like (it bounces back up to the manual position), and it will auto-focus to get you started. Then, you use a ring around the lens to manually focus, just like a film 35 mm camera. Panasonic won that part of the UI hands down.I don't much care about using the camera for movies. If you do, Canon is the clear winner. It takes full-size M-JPEG video (640x480, 30 fps). You can zoom while you shoot the video (unique to this camera AFAIK). The Sony takes 640x480 30 fps MPEG-1, which has the advantage of being smaller on the camera, but the disadvantage of falling apart if you edit the video after acquiring it. The Panasonic is awful in this regard -- 320x240 30 fps M-JPEG video. But I use a camcorder for video, not a still camera, so I took no points off for this. YMMVAt this point, I had pretty much zeroed in on the Canon vs the FZ20. Because my other camera is a Canon, using the same Digic-II processor that I love, I was favorably disposed to the Canon. The user interface is excellent on Canon cameras, and the color and focus are excellent. I knew that it would take good pictures with little fuss.The FZ20 also has excellent controls -- with one big exception. To change aperture or shutter speed in Program (fully automatic) mode, you need to press the shutter button half-way down, then press the Exposure button on the back of the camera, and then you can adjust using the rocker switch. The maneuver is every bit as awkward as it sounds. However, I seldom use the Program mode -- I normally use aperture priority, and the adjustment interface is perfectly fine for anything other than the Program mode.The Canon has ISO ratings of 50, 100, 200, and 400. The Panasonic's are 80, 100, 200, and 400. What I dislike about the Panasonic on this is that a natural way to use the ISO is as a \"poor man's\" neutral density filter. To do the moral equivalent of adding a 0.3 ND filter, just cut the ISO rating in half. Canon has the right steps for doing that across its range. Also, the Canon has a max. shutter speed of 1/3200, while the Panasonic tops out at 1/2000.One thing that matters to me is using filters. I use a circular polarized filter to cut down on glare, or a graduated neutral density filter for landscapes with a bright sky and dark foreground. The Panasonic comes with the lens adapter to take filters (72mm, which are a bit pricey). The Canon takes 55 mm filters -- a bit cheaper -- but does not come with the adapter. It is apparently not easy to get the adapter, especially if you order the camera itself on-line to save money. Even from a camera store, getting the adapter is apparently \"iffy.\"Ultimately, I just couldn't get away from the quality of the Leica lens. In addition to virtually no chromatic aberration, the uniformity of focus and illumination of the lens across the field I wanted to get a new camera for our upcoming trip to Greece. My basic requirements were that it be an ultrazoom and that it have image stabilization (ultrazoom isn't much good without it unless you always use a tripod. If you do, you can save about $150 by foregoing IS). I quickly learned that the current sweet-spot of the market for this class of camera is 5 MPixels, so I further narrowed my search to that. The choices were: Panasonic Lumix DMC F20 and F5; Konica Minolta DImage Z5; Sony CyberShot DSC H1; and Canon Poweshot S2 IS. All cameras in this class use an electronic viewfinder (EVF), which I'm not as fond of as optical.A few final points on the Panasonic FZ5 vs the FZ20. The FZ5 is about $100 less expensive than the FZ20. However, in addition to no manual focus, the FZ5 does not use ED glass in its Leica lens -- a big difference (adds to chromatic aberration). It also does not have a constant f/2.8 max aperture across the whole zoom -- it creeps up to f/3.3 at the longer lens settings. The constant f is unique to the FZ20 in this class of camera AFAIK, and is a very nice touch. The FZ5 does not have a hot shoe for external flash, which is a big disadvantage. For other differences, go to the [...]I have purchased the FZ20 and begun the learning curve for getting the max out of the camera. This is a camera for enthusiasts more than for causal photographers. I expet it will take me a few months of experimentation in different contexts to really fully appreciate the strengths and weaknesses of this camera. But it is clearly a wonderful device.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great lens, decent still camera overall, bad movie option", "unixReviewTime": 1126656000, "reviewTime": "09 14, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A114WE1URT580Y", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "Arturo Fukuda Ll", "helpful": [29, 32], "reviewText": "Panasonic and Leica jointed forces more than four years ago, their first long zoom camera working together was the FZ1, which still remain being popular and with a heavy demand.The FZ10 was the flagship of the Panasonic FZ line during the last year (2004) and it overcome the popularity of the FZ1, because of its 2 more MPs, its size and above all its high quality image with no vignette and very low noise levels.The NEW FZ20 has improved both former models, and now is the best long camera BY FAR....there's NO COMPETITION....even Canon Pro 1 sucks in comparison with this technological Marvel.A friend of mine own a Pro 1 and she's extremely jealous about the performance of my new toy....it is simply unbelievable.COLORS are natural similar to a Digital SRL - I've compared them with those from a Canon 20D and differences are marginal.The FZ20 has a very realiable performance, the GRIP is PERFECT even though is a bit smaller than in a DSRL.The autofocus is also extremely fast(AVOID the 9 points), and if you use the halfpress bottom, the shutter lag does not exist.the LENS....OH that LENS....LEICA....cant say more.the OIS is one the best gadget that Panasonic has included in....it helps a lot, even you are gonna be capable of taking steady shots at 1/2 seconds - handheld (check out my sample image above)About the noise, it's almost unnoticeable in outdoor shots, but indoor the performance is similar to any digital camera that comes with a small senzor (like G6, V3, etc)I strongly recommend no look further and go for  the FZ20.....dont be a zoombie Canon or Sony buyer.....try the FZ20 and show by yourself all the good things that everybody is talking about this fabulous Camera.....dont pay attention to those who only want to mislead people by leaving negative feedbacks on this product, even though they never have had one.Thats all....regards.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "No Competition", "unixReviewTime": 1106006400, "reviewTime": "01 18, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3T4OHEAHOJ700", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "B. Colonna", "helpful": [56, 56], "reviewText": "This camera is fantastic.  It has a superior lens.  The zoom is great and basically, the camera could be considered \"the poor man's answer to a digital SLR\".  Except it isn't an SLR.  The lens, made of very high quality by Lecia, is fixed mount.  You can't remove it, but it has an incredible zoom of up to about 430mm.  This makes it much more than a point and shoot, and gives you the flexibility of higher priced SLRs.Overall, this camera has numerous features!!! Easy to use controls, great battery life.  The camera is much larger than a point and shoot so know that going in.  The battery is a Panasonic unit, not AA or AAA, so it will cost a bit to replace.  It comes with the camera, along with an easy to use, compact charger.Photo quality - great!  For best results (lower noise) I set the ISO to 80 when possible.  You can shoot at F2.8 throughout the zoom range (even Panasonic's new 8MP Lumix doesn't offer that, dropping to 3.7 toward the longer range).You can shoot fully programmed or go manual if you are a camera buff.  You can use all the modes in between - shutter preferred, apeture preferred, etc.About all you give up versus a $1500-$2000 SLR is the ability to change lenses and a slightly lower shutter (some Canon SLRs fire at 1/8000 second).  This camera also has a smaller CCD sensor than some of the Canons, but again - the Panasonic is less than $500.  The CCD is what makes the photo quality on any digital cam, in the end.  ISO can be set to auto, or from 80-400.Stabilizer - helps keep shots sharp throughout a long focal length.  You have two options for stablizing photos.  One is throughtout the focus and one is at the time of the photo.  I set mine for just the time of the photo and feel that provides better results for sports photos (soceer, lacrosse).Bracketing - lets you bracket exposures, which works great when you are shooting on the beach, for example.  You have sun off the water, or maybe behind your subject, so you can bracket the exposures automatically and shoot 3 shots with one click, so you get an over/normal/under exposure and one should be a great shot!  This also helps with pictures of kids, as you essentially get a few different facial expressions (the bracket shots are after all in succession, not the same exact instant).You can also set the camera to fire off multiple shots on one click of the shutter (bursts) and get 10-20 shots in rapid fire, capturing that one or two \"perfect\" photos.  In addition there is a flip animation feature, which lets you create nice \"flip page\" features of your kids, pets, etc.You have a decent flip up flash as well as a hot shoe for an external flash.The camera has a built in video cam - just keep in mind that it locks the lens on whatever focal length you are at when you go to video mode, so this is not really for anything other than basic video.The camera also has full audio, so you can record sound and/or add narration to your photos to refer to later.Other features include numerous metering options, an auto focus \"assist lamp\" for low light, and histogram options.  It even has several settings like \"sports/snow/fireworks\" and so on, so you can choose one of those for different photo scenarios.  i've tried them all and they don't hurt the photos, although I'm not sure they enhance any given photo scenario.  But I tend to chose my own shutter and other settings, shooting manually much of the time.  if you prefer to shoot in auto mode, I doubt you'll be unhappy.This camera is a must own for a family.  It gives you great shots of the kids.The included software works fine, so this camera easily connects and works on your PC.The two downsides:The lens cap is not clip on, so you might lose it.  I use the included lens hood almost all the time so I don't worry too much about the cap.  The other downside - you need a good memory card to use any 5 megapixel camera - Panasonic includes only a 16mb.  You want at least 256mb, preferably 512mb and up.  if you are going to shoot at lot of bursts, get a high speed, quality card.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A Digital SLR trapped in a non-SLR Body - Great Product", "unixReviewTime": 1128729600, "reviewTime": "10 8, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AROTQNRZ51CUU", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "Brendan A. MacWade", "helpful": [19, 21], "reviewText": "I bought the DMC-FZ20 back in May 2005, just before a trip to London.  After thousands of fabulous pictures in virtually all conditions, I can confidently say that this is the camera that permanently switched me to digital.  Unlike previous generations of prosumer cameras, this was the one to offer practical advanced features that I don't ever want to be without.  This camera allows you to shoot in a true HDTV mode, or 1920x1080.  That comfortable, widescreen frame allowed me to take most of my pictures in that format, and make professional-looking pictures for presentation in any media - print, LCD projector, plasma TV, or LCD monitor.  More important, this camera gives you the features of an SLR in a single-lens design.  The F-Stop settings range from 2.8 to 8.0, and shutter speed ranges from 8 seconds to 1/2000th of a second.  This allows for photographing still subjects in low light conditions (without a flash), or action shots in daylight or sporting events.  The big Leica lens gives this camera the performance of many film rangefinder cameras, as well as SLR zoom lenses (30mm - 432mm optical zoom is quite adequate for most users).  If there was a camera that made the case that SLR's are only for journalists, red carpet, and wedding photographers, this is it.  You will need no other digital camera except this one and its successors.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "This is the camera that switched me to digital for good", "unixReviewTime": 1144627200, "reviewTime": "04 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2PYEOWMJZXFB8", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "Carla J. Schroder", "helpful": [21, 21], "reviewText": "This is an awesome camera. The digital zoom takes acceptable quality images even at the maximum 48x, if you can hold it steady enough. The image stabilizer is rather challenged at that magnification. Use one of those slick little car-window mounted tripods for long shots when you're on the road.It feels good, and overall worksmanship seems solid. Nothing on it feels flimsy. It is bit heavy for packing along on a hike, but it replaces an even heavier Canon EOS with two lenses and extra film, so it's a net gain. And my Canon doesn't even come close to 48x zoom.I printed some photos on good-quality photo paper with a Canon Pixma ip4200, and you cannot tell that they are not film photos.The autofocus works well under challenging conditions, though it struggles a bit in low-light and low-contrast situations. The manual focus is nice to have, but it's not as easy to see when you're in focus on the LCD screen as it is on a film camera.The rechargeable battery pack lasts a long time- I can go for a couple of weeks on the same charge if I don't do a lot of flash pictures. (note that the flash intensity is adjustable!) It has a hot shoe for an external flash.I put a one-gigabyte high-speed SD card in it, so I can go on a picture-taking frenzy and not worry. (Why do they even bother with those dumb little 16mb cards?)The controls are well-designed and well-laid out, unlike a lot of digital cameras, which seem to delight in making common tasks unnecessarily complex.Color balance, contrast, and details are excellent. A plus for me is it supports TIFF as well as JPG. (And even RAW, for whatever good that does, since every vendor has a different idea of what RAW should be.)It takes movies with sound, and comes with audio cables for copying your little movies to a computer.The camera comes with a lens hood, and you can put filters on it, though I haven't found anyone who sells filters yet. A skylight filter should be inexpensive, and you can leave it on all the time to protect the lens.The bundled software is pretty good, and easy to use. All in all, this is one nice camera.One thing I wonder about is its claimed equivalency to a 432mm zoom lens. I have a 300mm zoom, and the maximum magnification is exactly the same.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "great camera, great fun", "unixReviewTime": 1134950400, "reviewTime": "12 19, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A39JC4OBLTFWYG", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "Chris Meirose \"Big Chris\"", "helpful": [26, 26], "reviewText": "After a month of exhaustive digital camera shopping, I settled on two cameras - the Canon S2 and the Panasonic Lumix FZ20.  When I got them in my hands, and was able to look at them, the Lumix won out, and boy am I glad it did!You can read about the options, so I'll save from detailing that.  What does need to be said is the ease of use and quality of photo that results with this camera.  I am a novice photographer.  Nobody pays me for my work.  I do it because I enjoy it.  The result of that is more often than not, I use standard settings, and with this camera, that is 99% of the time a fantastic photo.  I have used every function on the camera, and each and every time I have moved from the standard setting the result has been an amazing photo.  Whether it is adjusting the aperature or the exposure, the operation is simple and effective.  Menus are clear and easy to use, and switching between functions is fool proof.The optics on this camera are outstanding.  If you are buying a digital camera, the digital zoom is virtually worthless as a consideration for purchase.  The optical zoom (in this case 12x) is the critical zoom function.  The zoom is quick, and the autofocus is quick to catch up.  You also get the option to manually focus when/if you want to.If you don't want an SLR camera, this is the camera to buy.  If you are willing to own a camera that is too big to stick in your pocket, this is the camera to buy.  If you want to take quality photos, this is the camera to buy.  If you are considering anything else in this class, you are making a mistake if you don't choose this camera.  They could add 50% in price to this camera and it would still be a great value.Those who give this less than 5 of 5 need to be smacked.  This camera exceeds all expectations.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Superb quality, fantastic price, incredible options", "unixReviewTime": 1121212800, "reviewTime": "07 13, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AXU3VKZE848IY", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "Chris Zee Shutterbug", "helpful": [45, 47], "reviewText": "I have shot with 35mm film for years (decades). On 3 different systems, and eacheventually had several lenses, typically a 24mm, a 28-80, and an 80-250.The 80-250 at f3.5 was HUGE. More recently I have gone thru 3 digitalcameras, an HP215, a Pentax EI200, and a Canon A70. The Canon had thewidest zoom range at 3x and I also used a 2.4x Canon teleconverter with it.So it was a handful as well.I wanted to simplify my life, and yet preserve the quality of the photos Iam accustomed to taking. In other words as much zoom range, built in manualfunctions, external flash capability, etc, but NOT a 5-10 lbs bag ofaccessories everywhere I go. Not really of utmost importance was themegapixel resolution, I have taken prize winning and nationwide calendarphotos with a 2 megapixel camera. Many schools of thought here, add thisone; a hi res monitor will display 1280x1024 pixels with sometimes painfulclarity and sharpness. Yet that is barely 1.5 megapixel, the source and thequality (dynamic range, edge sharpness, focus) of the original have as muchimpact as the number of dots. This became important when I chose the FZ20,as the other camera in consideration was the Nikon 8800 (The Minolta Z5photo quality made it a non starter). It had 8 vs 5 meg resolution, but notthat wonderful Leica f2.8 lens, and that's f2.8 at 430mm! Compare that tothe Nikon's f5.2 at only 350mm. In photography the lens is everything. Indigital photography, that is closely followed by the CCD sensor size (theNikon is ahead here, however both camera test results show objectionablenoise at ISO200 and higher, so shoot at 80 or 100 ISO when possible). So adigital SLR was too big and required a bag of lenses, the one lens thatcame with the Nikon was only so-so, and the Panasonic got the nod ofapproval.So how does it fare after 4 weeks and about 1500 photos? Very well indeed.The Lens is outstanding, the image stabilization works superbly, the 4 fpsmotor drive is great, and the pictures are tack sharp and stunning inquality. There is an incredible user community out there for this camera,and most review sites have a large user base forums for this and otherPanasonic FZ cameras. I however could not entirely give up the gadget bag,it still contains 52mm macro adapter lenses which fit just right into thespace in front of the FZ20 lens without any adapters, an external flash,and two extra batteries. A joy to own and use.PS. The camera makes noises as you move it, the aperture settingmechanicals at work. Also the view finder will show white vertical lines ifthere is a strong point light source (sun, spot lights, etc) in the fieldof view, this does not show in the picture. The zoom lever position, andthe exposure button position especially take a lot of getting used to", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "DSLR, Minolta Z5, or Nikon 8800? NO Pana FZ20!", "unixReviewTime": 1113436800, "reviewTime": "04 14, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3PD1EDE6ZRDXK", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "D. H Mark", "helpful": [35, 38], "reviewText": "I really like the camera, so I am just going to note some pertinent negatives that others may wish to consider.  These comments are based on my own experience, balanced by what I have read on other digital camera forums.Noise-- easily noticeable on an 8 by 10, at ISO 100.  Navy blue pants had red specks.  This is a function of the small sensor, which allows the long lens at a reasonable size.  I have read that the FZ15 (4 mp)  has less noise, almost all the same features.  The lesson learned is that sensor size makes a big difference, you do not want higher megapixels without increasing the sensor size.Viewfinder \"freeze\"-- When using 3-zone focus, when you are test focussing by halfway pressing shutter, frame freezes.  Disrupting to try to shoot picure when this occurs.  Avoidable with other focussing modes.Downloading pictures-- When using windows camera wizard, pictures do not appear and do not download in the order you took them, unlike my Canon S30.  You have to pick through the old and new picture to download.Filter use-- Camera has unorthodox filter system, comes with lens hood which will accept 72 mm filters, but at some distance from the lens, increasing storage bulk.  People are buying various aftermarket filter adapters, but these increase the bulk of the camera when the camera is off.  (Camera lens retracts during shutoff ).  I am going to try a Nextphoto.net filter adapter which snaps into the retracting lens, to get both filter capability AND the compact size during storage.Instruction manual-- Could be a bit more educational/explanatory, not too clear in many spots.White balance-- Unlike a CanonS30 which I still use, I find the colors sometimes seem dull and bluish-- some think faces look pink, especially with flash.  The solution is to adjust the white balance two clicks toward red.  Most people are used to \"warm\" look to facial tones.Otherwise, great camera, fulfills my need for quick candids, scenery, everything.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great camera, but..........", "unixReviewTime": 1106265600, "reviewTime": "01 21, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AMF9A7V2KG839", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "Digital Photographer \"Used to Like Nikon,s\"", "helpful": [14, 16], "reviewText": "I have had several digital cameras from other other manufacturers, some were not bad, some were awful,the FZ20K is in a league of its own, I think its quite user friendly while still giving you a host of features.The final test are the results, I dont think that any of the manufacturers can come near the 20K.It certainly is not pocketable, but yet is not heavy, The Leica lens is the best and it is always at F 2.8, not shifting to a smaller F stop as you zoom out.I could go on and on, so very simply, this is the finest camera I,ve ever owned.  I'd give it 10 stars if I could!!!!!!!!!!!!!!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A  Great Camera Either Digital or Film", "unixReviewTime": 1135814400, "reviewTime": "12 29, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A18FTONUEYY0O3", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "Diverse Interests", "helpful": [30, 52], "reviewText": "While I am not a sophisticated photographer, I am something of a tech junkie such that this is my 7th, 8th or 9th digital camera.  Because of the frequency with which I switch machines of all sorts, I make it a rule never to read manuals.  This camera holds its end and is ready to use out of the box with little instruction and logical controls.  It distinguishes itself with extremely fast shutter time and instantaneous time between shots even when not in fast frame mode.  You don't have to stand around and wait for the camera while your subject moves on to something else as you do with other digital cameras.  The 12x zoom works quite well.  Better still, because of the wide angle of the lense, close shots are happily in focus.  There is no need to back up to photograph subjects near to you.However, the camera lacks the software/chipware standard on most other digital cameras to make colors look true.  Colors look faded and washed out like they came out of an antique album.  Also, pictures are cast in the hue of the predominant item such that even skin looks purple if the subject is wearing a purple shirt.  This is something that one cannot fix well with software.  I have never had a camera with this problem before.  Moreover, there doesn't seem to be much consistency from picture to picture with the same settings in the same room as far as color goes such that one doesn't get a feeling of control over color.  \"Kodachrome, give me those nice bright colors.\"  I think I'll give this camera to my husband and move on.  Any suggestions?", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Easy to use, quick shots, poor quality color", "unixReviewTime": 1104537600, "reviewTime": "01 1, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AYU9X680MKGIW", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "D. Kane", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "I just got the camera today. I have had 4 other digital cameras over the past 5 years, 3 of them Olympus and 1 HP Photosmart all in the $200-$250 range. Out of all of them my favorite was the Olympus D-565 Zoom. I was having problems with slow shutter speeds on all of them and my shots were very blurry. The only way I could get them to be less fuzzy was by using the flash which wasn't appropriate for all the shots I was taking. I didn't like using a tripod either to get steadier clearer shots so I decided it was time to look for a much better camera.I searched the web for reviews on cameras with quicker shutter speeds, which were not too expensive. I really wanted a digital DSLR camera but when I saw the prices I realized I couldn't afford them. I found a few models that were in the DSLR style. I was crossed between the Canon PowerShot S2 IS, this Panasonic model FZ20 and the Sony Cyber-shot DSC-H1 Digital CameraDSC-H1. It was a very difficult choice but I decided on the Panasonic DMC-FZ20 because it seemed to have a cult following. Not to mention I have had problems before with Sony products in the past so I was wary of another Sony product.Today my camera arrived and when I took it out of the box I instantly fell in love! It is a very sturdy, well made camera. I really like the way it looks because it has the look and feel of a professional 35 mm camera professional photographers use. It looks bigger than the product pictures show, however it is not too heavy. By the looks and feel you can see it is not a cheaply made camera and is very sturdy. It feels really good in my hands.I quickly charged the battery and fired it up. I couldn't wait to start taking pictures. I quickly skimmed the manual, but have to admit I didn't read it in depth {I will do that later}. When I took my 1st shot which was indoors in bad lighting I was very surprised! It was like night and day compared to my other point and shoot digital Olympus cameras I have been using. The image stabilizer really works well and is a Godsend! I didn't have to use my flash and the pictures came out without no blur. Way to go Panasonic!Next, I took it outdoors and it is a very overcast cloudy day. I was surprised to see that it also did a very good job. When I start reading the manual and play around with all the features I know this camera will take very good top notch pictures.The features this camera has is too numerous for me to list. I couldn't believe how many bells and whistles this camera has. I was so used to my bare bones point and shoot digital cameras that didn't have too many features that I was speechless when I saw how much things I can use to take optimal photos. I will need to read the manual and take more sample shots until I get it right.Get this camera and you won't be dissapointed. I am now a big fan of Panasonic cameras!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Phenomenol Camera!", "unixReviewTime": 1124150400, "reviewTime": "08 16, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1LDQ7NNIWTO2Q", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "F. Cirksena \"fcirkse\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "We've bought and sold many digital cameras over the years since my wife is a professional photographer and I use the cameras to take quality picture of items I sell.  We also do weddings, graduations, etc.We have not purchased pro cameras but prefer the upper line consumer cameras for obvious reasons.  Our last two cameras have been this one and a Nikon D50 D-SLR.  Before that we had a Sony DSC-F828.  All of these are great cameras with particular strengths  and on their own do a great job.But for me, the FZ20 is the best all-around digital camera I've ever owned and used.  It will take pictures of anything and do an excellent job 99% of the time.  The difficult shots for me are the high-glare, low light photos I take a lot of and this camera will do it every time.The high glare shots are taken one of two ways: with controlled lighting and in low light.  We use a photo booth setting using daylight flourescent bulbs to flood the subject and the FZ20 does it right.  In the low light, natural indoors setting, I turn the flash on and set the image stabilization to Mode 2 and 99.9% of the time I get a clear, in-focus, accurate photo.  Sometimes I have to focus off-center and zoom out a little to throw the flash in a different direction and that does the job well.  But, this is the first camera I've used where I get consistently great pictures using a flash in low light on high glare subjects.I can't say enough - and at the price Amazon had it at, it was too good to pass up.  I bought a new one and sold my older FZ20 for enough to almost pay for the new one.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best Camera I've Ever Owned", "unixReviewTime": 1153008000, "reviewTime": "07 16, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AYHVXPT15XU66", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "Gillian Buchanan \"Classical Music Editor at B...", "helpful": [19, 20], "reviewText": "I have been swithering for months around a variety of superzoom 5 megapixel plus cameras after a rather disappointing experience with the Minolta Dimage Z2.  Although this camera takes very good outdoor pictures, it wasn't so good indoors and even outdoors would sometimes have trouble focussing if you zoomed in too close.  For the purposes I wanted to use it - photographing fine lace and dolls for my e-books - it was next to useless.So after many months of dreaming, thinking and comparing review after review I began to get closer this week.  I looked at the Fuji S7000 and S20 Pro, Sony DSC-828, Nikon Coolpix 8800, Panasonic Lumix DMC-FZ5, and a number of other similar superzoom cameras.  Every time I compared any of them to the Panasonic Lumix DMC FZ20 the only camera which came anywhere near to it was the FZ5.  So today it ended up being a battle between the FZ5 and FZ20 and when I saw the FZ20K beside the FZ5 in Jessops today the battle was over.  I would have liked the silver but Jessops only had the black model; nevertheless the FZ20 it was.So far I have had the battery charged for about half an hour - way to go Panasonic, it only takes 2 hours to charge the battery for this large camera - and basically the camera is light years ahead of my Fuji Finepix 2600 camera (which takes perfectly good indoor pictures but often requires some adjustments in lighting arrangements) and the aforementioned Minolta Dimage Z2.  The lense is frankly amazing to see, and the camera is packed in the box with a lense cover protecting it.  The camera and lens hood and lens hood adaptor are carefully wrapped in a soft protective plastic wrap within the box, to minimise the chances of any damage.The menus are easy to navigate with very little instruction and the manual is not one of those which provides minimal information and then expects you to print out hundreds of pages from a PDF file.  It contains all the information you would need to operate the camera, all the safety information and everything into a 118 page booklet which is clearly laid out and easy to follow.  There is a lot of information to digest, but then this camera is really a DSLR with some point and shoot functions.  It compared favourably in appearance with the Canon EOS 300D which one of the other people in the shop had with him.  It certainly is no toy and will provide both point and shoot enthusiasts and manual control enthusiasts with an excellent range of facilities.The camera of course has full manual capabilities as well as a wide range of modes and different settings for the image sizes as you would expect.  The flash is operated by a button on the back - an advantage in some museums where you are allowed to take photographs provided you disable the flash.  The zoom is wonderful and it's exciting to watch the camera autofocus stabiliser working and focussing beautifully on the area you want it to photograph.I took photographs of some fine tatted lace this evening - if you don't know what tatting is look at my web site, [...] - and you could see every stitch.  This is something that my Fuji Finepix 2600 2 megapixel camera could accomplish with care, good lighting and macro photography on a tripod; the Panasonic does it without any zoom at all and just holding the camera a few inches from the lace - this in a hallway which is not particularly well lit in the evenings.Way to go Panasonic, this is a wonder camera which will provide many years of photographic enjoyment!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Superlative digital camera", "unixReviewTime": 1126137600, "reviewTime": "09 8, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2GL70AZ8MWXI3", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "GWT", "helpful": [49, 50], "reviewText": "First, allow me to give a brief history on my owned camers. The first good camera I bought was a Minolta Maxxum 7000 back in the mid 80's. This was a good camera and I took many pictures over the years. The first digital I bought was the 3MP Olympus C3000 in 2001. In mid 2004, the camera bit the dust (unfixable). Luckily, I had an extended warranty and the retailer allowed me to choose another camera which cost the same as the Olympus. The only one they had in stock which suited me at the time was Kodak's DX7590. I kept the camera for a couple of months and even though it took good pictures, something just wasn't right. The detail was lacking, shots were not consistent and white balance was off at times. Even though it was a little faster than the Oly, still something was missing. Since it was a replacement, and I was ready to upgrade anyhow, selling it outright would not be a loss to me.I wanted a good camera in the $500 range, at least 5MP and a powerful zoom. I researched and researched, and everything seem to lead me back to the Panasonic FZ20 time and time again. I was nervous about complaints on some noise, dim LCD and battery life.  I ordered the FZ20 and I must say I made a good decision. Maybe I've had bad apples in the past and didn't know a good digital when I saw one, but the Panasonic far exceeds my expectations.It is quick to focus (even in a dim lit room). The zoom is fast and awesome. The histogram is a nice feature. The noise is not detectable for 99% of the shots, and probably 100% of the shots for most users. The flash has a very good range, as well. It reminds me a lot of my Maxxum 7000 in the feel, functionality, and operation. I took and compared similar pictures with the Kodak and found that the Kodak was richer in color, but the Panasonic was clearer. However, the Panasonic has settings which increased saturation. As far as the the LCD brightness, I'm not sure where those complaints come from. It's bright enough for me. It does dim a little when you press the shutter, but that is no concern to me at that point.If you are looking for a simple, no thrills, point and shoot camera, the Panasonic may not be for you. Don't get me wrong, the panasonic produces good pictures by pointing and shooting, but you have much more control over varying situations if you need that control. I think it is more of a professional camera than the Kodak and Oly, which I previously owned.Not sure on what color to get? Silver or Black. That was a hard decision for me, but I recommend the black. It's sharp looking, and any lens accessories you buy will probably be black, too. I've heard that when silver finishes wear they show black. That was enoght to turn me against the silver.So, if you are looking for a 5MP range, long zoom, professional feel and operation type camera, which takes excellent pictures, look no further. I think the Panasonic DMC-FZ20 will make you happy.Update: After two months of use, I like this camera even more. I always display the most recent pictures as a slideshow screensaver (full screen) on our PC. Looking over the Christmas pictures, I am intrigued by the clarity, color richness, and natural look given by these photographs. I've also purchased a lens tube adapter (Raynox RT5264P) and attached a 52mm UV filter. If you want your camera to look even sharper, get the lens adapter. The lens hood which comes with the camera is nice to have gotten, but it is mainly for bright light situations, and  the thread size is like 72mm. The hood is good for wide angle, but zoom shots have a decreased angle of view, can can cause flare and ghost images. [...]", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Reviews Have Been Proven", "unixReviewTime": 1101945600, "reviewTime": "12 2, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A3I9VSSDDPG477", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "Han40some", "helpful": [40, 40], "reviewText": "I used to own Panasonic LC33, a simple 3MP camera.  Then i used a sony, canon(many models) & fuji.  I returned everyone of them, becos they came no where close the clarity of Panasonic.I bought this DMC-FZ20K 5MP, since i needed the 12x Zoom.  WoW !!!!!! is all i have to say.1. Leica lens is the best. Smooth & awesone, canon lens is coarse.2. Simplest Menus.3.Huge 2.0 LCD screen4. Awesomest Pics !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!5. Very sharp, Canon did produce good colors but lacked sharpness as Panasonic does.  We printed several 8x11 & compared.6. Several Useful SCENE modes, so no complex manual adjusting.7. Image stabilizer really works.  remember this is optical, not digital stabilizer.8. Leica lens & Panasonic technology, marriage made in heaven.9. Not too heavy not too light.10. This is not pointnshoot but not as bulky feel you get with canon g-5, g-6.  The grip on this is awesome.11. hot shoe, lens adapter for more lens, if you are a camera freak.If you think i am overwhelmed with this camera & giving biased reviews, check out Circuit City reviews on same camera, every single user gave 5 stars................all 32 users.Panasonic is at the top.  Then, why panasonic is NOT popular, not popular does not mean it is NOT best !  Same goes with Subaru as i always say !!!!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Do yourself a favor ! Stop researching & buy this !!!", "unixReviewTime": 1095379200, "reviewTime": "09 17, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "AOHBRJRIDY6TO", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "J. \"bluemonitor\"", "helpful": [77, 80], "reviewText": "I have owned this camera for about a year, and the FZ15 for another year before that. I have taken thousands of pictures with them, so I can give you a good assessment of what you should expect. Since I've sold these, I upgraded to a Rebel XT, so I can also tell you how they compare.Interesting thing about the model is that, for various reasons, it has a very very loyal and almost cult-like following who make this camera sound like it's made by God himself. FZ20 is not \"all that\" as people here there and everywhere will tell you. It is just a very decent prosumer-grade camera.That said, I would recommend this over Canon S2IS (although comparable in image quality, feels like a toy over this one), and the Sony DSC-H1 (just not as polished enough as a serious camera). Yes, I have had a decent amount of experience using both of these other cameras.Many people will tell you that this camera can produce images so good that you won't be able tell the difference between it and one from a more expensive dSLR. This is only half-correct. Let me tell you that even with the mediocre kit-lens of the Canon Rebel XT (which you all know is the low-end model dSLR), you will be able to tell the difference when compared side-by-side. Better contrast, color balance, sharpness, just more lively and \"better-looking.\" On the other hand, if you just show the picture from an FZ20 and tell them that it's from a Canon 5D, you can probably fool most people (including me). But then again, I am very confident that I can take a picture with my Canon A620 and do the same.I seem to be too much on the negative here, so let me compensate for my 4-stars. With good lighting, this camera can produce some very impressive images, and the zoom reach is just awesome. If you haven't had experience with ultra-zooms, you will appreciate how it opens up another world of opportunities in your composition. I would go out to the street, sit on a bench, start shooting away at people without them noticing me at all... resulting in people looking very natural, not looking into the camera and smiling.Let me close by noting a very very important difference between these two cameras. The FZ20 is a \"daylight\" camera. If you need to take pictures over ISO80 (on the FZ20), you WILL DEFINITELY be able to tell the difference between the image it produces and one a Rebel XT would produce under the same ISO. ISO400 shots on this camera is, I am sorry, HORRENDOUS. That's right. HORRENDOUS. You cannot use it. This means that if you use it in auto setting in a semi-dark place (even inside of a decently lit building), you will get a bad image. If you set the ISO low and lower the speed to compensate, you will get a blurred image - if not from your handshake (please, the IS is good, but it doesn't do magic), then from your subject moving. The Rebel XT, set your ISO up to 800, it's STILL better than the FZ20's ISO 200. In fact, the XT's ISO 1600 is comparable to FZ20's ISO 200. This means great pictures even when your not outside in the daytime.Hope you found this helpful :)", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "FZ20 vs Rebel XT", "unixReviewTime": 1149292800, "reviewTime": "06 3, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A38BMAZQER781H", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "Jeff B \"sp44012\"", "helpful": [18, 23], "reviewText": "I have had this camera for about a month now and have been able to try it in many situations. First of all from a feature standpoint this is a great camera. The only other cameras I've owned that I can compare it to are a Canon G2 and Olympus C750 and I think the FZ20 has the best features and is easiest to use.  The main thing to know if you're considering this camera however is it is noisy. I recently made an 8x10 print of a sunny day scene with lots of white clouds and sky and was surprised at how much noise came through. The camera was set at ISO 80 with all options such as sharpness,contrast etc. set to standard.  In the cameras defense I will say there is a lot of detail in the pictures and in many situations the noise wouldn't be so noticeable.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Panasonic FZ20", "unixReviewTime": 1108339200, "reviewTime": "02 14, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1710HA9SP99NY", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "Kuan Song", "helpful": [17, 17], "reviewText": "The era of consumer imaging starts with digital cameras? no. It started with the compact cameras in the 80s, the cheap japanese cameras with their tiny little slow lens. For the first time people realized that good pictures can still be taken with tiny lens instead of the big expensive 35mm instruments.Since that time the cheap japanese cameras used this to the extreme that noise was so obvious. In the digital age, compact cameras are still doing that and gets poor noise control simply because of not enough light through the lens.DSLR is much better for this purpose, except that a good huge lens is hard to manufacture, unlike smaller lenses. DSLR and the tiny little lenses used in most compact digital cameras are the two ends of consumer photography. A balance of the amount of light and the quality of lens allowable for consumers.FZ series is such a good example of this elegant balance. I've used the FZ-1, FZ-10, and now the FZ-20. They are simply the king of the jungle. With the constant F/2.8, they conquer the shortcoming of light deficiency of compact digital cameras. With the proven Leica lens design, they provide lens of beauty.The reasons I upgrade my FZ-10 to FZ-20 are as follows:1. FZ20 separates the link between metering and focusing. In FZ-10 if you want spot-metering, you also have to use spot-focusing. But in FZ-20, you can do spot-metering with any kind of metering options.2. FZ20 has the more realistic knob layout so you can exchange A/S/M modes without going to the menus, as FZ-10 was designed.3. I can sell my old FZ-10 for the price of a new FZ-20 on amazon now4. other minor reasons such as an AF assist lamp, much more powerful flash, and 1M pixels, faster focusing, cooler petal hood, etc.etc.I know that after the engineering wonders of FZ-1 and FZ-20, I can expect beauty out of FZ-20, and I did. I do have a Canon 350D and a SONY F707 too. After comparison, I'm keeping 350D and FZ20 as my main family cameras.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "elegant balance for photography", "unixReviewTime": 1147132800, "reviewTime": "05 9, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A29KW8IPH6EWVZ", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "Mike DaKidd \"commortis\"", "helpful": [23, 24], "reviewText": "Okay, suddenly finding myself sliding over the \"old-guy\" milestone, I don't really use expressions like \"Rocking\" or \"Rocks\" and so on.  But I gotta' say that this camera is everything and then some for a digital hobbyist with pretensions to artistry such as myself.  I have owned several $50-100.00 digicams in the vga-to-1.5 mp range; and also an Olympus C-211 2mp, Fujifilm F-2400Zoom, and another fuji 2mp digital camera. After learning how to coax some nice pix out of these digicams  I began lusting after megapixels and zoom.After doing what I thought was much research on the web I settled on the minolta z-3 and the Lumix DMC-FZ20K.  I bought the z-3.  Wonderfully ergonomic in the hand, the picture-taking was dissapointing.  After doing more research I discovered that it was possible to take good pix with it with some tinkering, but not, generally, with the \"auto\" settings.Not what I had in mind.Sending it back after two weeks of puttering about with it, I bought the FZ20K.YESSSS!!!!I was taking fabulous pix right out the box, and even shifting exposure settings and such to realize special effects and so on.  The camera is bulkier than the minolta, but I find it more intuitive and I don't have to putz around with the controls to get good snapshots.  Along with the 12x optical zoom on the Leica lens, the ability to capture great shots with all the special scene modes, and video with sound, I have to say that this is the 5 mp digital camera to have, hands down!NOTE:I bought a three-piece filter kit and adapter tube along with this camera from A& M photo world (amphotoworld.com - ask for Tyler), a couple of extra battery packs from thomasdistributing.com, 3 ATP 512mb SD cards (60x), a universal ac adapter, a full-size and a desktop tripod, and a camera bag from microcenter, and I am now looking forward to capturing some good pix on our vacation in Hawaii.Total price of this package:  around $750.00 with taxes and shipping included and well worth it.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Rocking Panasonic Lumix DMC-FZ20K", "unixReviewTime": 1110672000, "reviewTime": "03 13, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A198JGOF1W0D69", "asin": "B0002R282O", "reviewerName": "Mr.BLB", "helpful": [13, 15], "reviewText": "i have been wanting this camera before it made its debut and i finally bought it 3 weeks ago and i do not regret it one bit. I LOVE THIS CAMERA, and im not one to love much of anything LOLthe 12X ZOOM was the clincher to buying the cam and the 5MP is more then enough. the cam is easy to use for anyone. its not a compact cam, so if you want something you can put in your pocket this isnt the one, but if you want a high quailty cam then this is the one and size matters at the moment. the 12X ZOOM lens is made by one of the best companies Leica in the business. if this is a cam that your thinking about, dont not pass it up.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "SIMPLY THE BEST!!!!", "unixReviewTime": 1111536000, "reviewTime": "03 23, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AUT9HSLT32RGJ", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "Arthur P. Haviland Jr. \"AirshowFan\"", "helpful": [20, 23], "reviewText": "I upgraded from a digital rebel to the 20D. I am an aviation photographer and need the speed that this camera provides with a 5fps shutter and 26 image buffer (large jpg). I was very satisfied with the battery life of my digital rebel, but the 20D does even better with up to 700 images per charge with the BP-511A battery. For a backup, I can still use the BP-511s from my rebel.I have not experienced any lockups or Err99 messages, just outstsanding photographs using Canon L lenses. The camera also works well with my Canon 550EX flash. I'm the type of guy who only reads a manual as a last resort. I haven't needed it with the 20D. Eveything is intuitive and easy to find.If you are looking for a professional grade camera that will produce photographs that you can be proud of, buy the 20D.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Simply the best affordable digital SLR camera", "unixReviewTime": 1115424000, "reviewTime": "05 7, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3MQAQT8C6D1I7", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "AverageReviewer", "helpful": [110, 115], "reviewText": "Update:I just spent three weeks in Africa in a very desolate and harsh environment with this camera.  I have to add - Don't overlook the construction on your dSLR.  I had heavy long telephoto lenses on it and the performance of the magnesium case, metal mounts, weather proofing, battery grip all is just amazing.  I hate to imagine how a lesser plastic frame might have performed.  After traveling by rattling/vibration ridden truck for days, dugout canoes in the middle of swamps, airplanes, hiking -- I came to appreciate Canon's commitment to construction. This camera and and the entire EOS system held up superbly under extremely abusive circumstances and can understand why professional photographers prefer this brand.  And the pictures?  Oh My, the pictures are just simply the best pictures I have ever taken in my life.  Not just because of the locations but because of this terriffic equipment.  My friend who had another major brand of camera complained about a muddy ant inside his lens, imagine a muddy ant inside his other major brand lens while he was shooting -- not with my Canon equipment (the sealing held up great).  Albeit - he's a better photographer so he probably got amazing shots I didn't -- I didn't worry about the equipment.  A+++ to Canon for the camera, the lenses, the battery grip - everything.On other news, I just read that canon is releasing the 5D so I guess my info from the original review was correct.  Its definitely a bigger higher end camera and at $3,200 definitely in a different class.  I think I'll keep my 20D for telephoto work and but with its full frame sensor, I might get a 5D for wide angle photography.  Again, amazing equipment from Canon.Original Review:I'm a first time dSLR buyer  (bought the 20D from Amazon -- great service).  This was a big jump for me and I read and I read before I decided on this purchase and whether I should jump into the dSLR world.  I'd outgrown point and shoot a while back.On the 20D.  I agonized over the 10D and the 6megapix Digital Rebel until the 20D came out and I quickly decided on the 20D.  I picked the 20D because of solid magnesium case, 9point autofocus, 8.2megapix sensor and DIGIC II, and Instant On.  So even after the Rebel XT came out -- the 20D is in a different class altogether. The 20D is a professional chassis and you can use it as a pro camera -- the Rebel is for world travelers (In my opinion).My agony now is over what type of photography I want to do.  I only have the kit lens and a $79 dollar 50mm f/1.8 II ... lenses are expensive especially the good ones as I'm learning:Here is what I've learned (intended for the new people who are wondering if they want dSLR or not).  dSLR is really about the lenses and the options that you can use on the camera. You need great lenses for great pictures. This is my gradeschool version on dSLRs and lenses and I hope it helps:The setup -- Lets suppose you are standing next to your car and on your car's hood sits your girlfriend and on the hood unbeknownst to her sits a litle grasshopper.  Behind your car is a lake and in the distance there's a huge snow capped mountain.  This is the difference lenses make:Prime Lenses:  Would let you take wonderful facial shot of your girlfriend (boyfriend).  If the lens has a good aperture, you might be able to blur the background so you only get her beautiful face and get rid of the annoying mountain and they tend to be light and small. (Canon EF 50mm f/1.4 is a prime lens -- $350)Super Wide Angle Lenses:  Expands the foreground and compresses the background.  So you'd get a picture of your girlfriend on the car which would both be huge and a lake that would stretch to the horizon and the mountain would look tiny in the far off distance. (Canon EF 14mm f/2.8L is a super wide angle lens -- $1,800)Telephoto Lenses:  Compress the foreground and magnify the distant objects.  You would wind up taking a picture that would magnify the mountain in the background but your girlfriend, car, and lake would either be very small and compressed in the foreground or they wouldn't even come out in extreme telephoto lenses as you'd only get the mountaintop and cut out the rest.  Your girlfriend would also wonder about your relationship at the sight of the humongous lens: good telephotos can be HUGE and heavy! (Canon 400mm EF f/2.8L is a super telephoto lens $6,000)Macro Lenses:  Let you take pictures of very small things and they tend to allow you to focus quite close in on the subject.  You'd walk up to your girlfriend and she'd wonder what you were doing so close to the hood.  You'd give her a peck on the cheek and then you'd close in on the little grasshopper next to her.  With a macro lens, you'd could take a great picture of the little grasshopper and it would fill my frame.  If your girlfriend is like mine, she'd be off the car as soon as she caught glimpse of the bug.  Old stereotype here no disrespect ladies - I know a few that would put me to shame. (Canon EFS 60mm f/2.8 is a macro lens -- $450)Zoom Lenses:  Are any lenses that allow you to shift the focal length.  That is to say I can make it more wide angle or more telephoto.  The 20D comes with a 18 to 55 zoom lens which gives you marginal wide angle and up to 3x telephoto.  Not a bad kit lens but its not USM (Ultrasonic) so autofocus is not as fast and not as accurate and can fail to focus sometimes and its not IS (Image stabilized) which lets you take clearer pictures without a tripod. (Canon EFS 17-85mm IS USM is a zoom lens that covers some wide angle at 17mm and some telephoto at 85mm -- $600).  You can turn the barrel and you can change focal length!! What a wonderful invention but they're more complex with more parts than primes and the extra parts add weight and they generally affect the amount of light they let in (aperture stuff) but you don't have to change lenses and they offer more flexibility.Now bear in mind that if you're out there in the middle of a blooming field in Georgia and start changing lenses, you can get dirt or pollen in the sensor.  I only change my lenses indoors in a non windy environment.Exposure and Shutter Speed:  Exposure is controlled by the ISO sensitivity of the sensor (ISO rating is another arcane film invention basically lower the ISO number the more sensitivity to light).  One of the problems with smaller sensors was noise (graininess) on the pictures at high ISO numbers.  Well not on the 20D the noise is imperceptible to me.  Shutter speed is also controlled by your 20D...and the 20D has a great shutter 5frames per second, up to 1/8000 of a second.  Wow! So you have two out of three big components taken care of here and the 20D is first rate on a ton of other things like custom White balance etc.A note on Aperture.  Its just how much light can come into the lens (the size of the hole). The lower the aperture number f/# on the lense the more light it allows.  Aperture determines depth of field (how much of the foreground + background is in focus) and it constrains shutter speeds.  Now aperture is a function of lens construction -- a 400mm f/2.8 lens is humongous and costs $6,000 while a 70-300mm telephoto f/4.5 to 5.6 is $1,200 but with the 400mm lens (get this)...you can use faster shutters and freeze the action of a quarterback spinning in midair across the field on a night game (or freeze your son as he's swinging a bat in little league:  ball bat and son frozen in midair!).  With the 70 to 300mm, you'd have to use a slower shutter and you'd get blurr and blurry does not make the cover of the USA Today nor brings a smile to grandpa.  On another example, if you've been hiking for a month to take a picture of a sloth that moves at 1cm a year in some god forsaken South American jungle, the 70-300mm lens will weigh allot less and allow you to run faster than the 400mm white monster lens.  If I'm a nature photographer, I'd rather come out with the picture than fall victim to some relocated pigmy tribe because I couldn't run fast enough and have someone years later find my bones still clutching my white 40lb $6,000 lens in the middle of Brazil still attached to my 20D with a flashcard full of razor sharp gorgeously blokehed* pigmy and sloth pictures, ala blair witch project.  So get a lens for what you need -- I guess is what I recommend. (*Blokeh are those out of focus circles of light in the backgrounds of pictures taken with expensive good lenses)A word on Nikon.  There are two camps of photographers these days Canon and Nikon (well there are others like Leica - but if you own a Leica you're probably a pro, don't care about feature battles and are laughing at my gradeschool analysis).  The 20D is more expensive and better chassis feature for feature than the D100 - go compare 8.2megapix vs 6.1 and the list goes from there.  Nikon owners will tell you that their lenses have backwards compatibility 50 years...yes but you'll have to manually focus those lenses and on some of them you have to pay some guy to saw off some metal flaps to make them fit the D100.  Canon EF has been around since 1986 and there are a ton of autofocus lenses out there. EF is the standard lens mount that fits the 20D and there is a newer mount called the EF-S Mount that also fits.  Canon is very conservative in their advertisement as they aim for educated consumers: D100 claims a burst mode of 144 pictures -- yes but on the low quality setting, 20D can do the same if you cut the quality down...you'll hear spot metering, megapixels, focus speed --- you need to read to understand all of this and make a sound decision.  Nikon makes great cameras and I don't want to get into a war.  If you already own a bunch of recent Nikor lenses -- your mind is already made up.  A good friend of mine owns the D70 and another the Digital Rebel and me with the 20D -- we're all happy.  After much review and a ton of reading, I liked the 20D better for my purpose as a personal preference I bought it and am very happy.On crop factors.  Lenses are still stuck in the 35mm film focal length format world and 35mm film is bigger than the sensors on the 20D and this means simply that the EF and EFS lenses turn out more telephoto on the 20D.  So a lens marked 10mm is actually a 16mm (multiply mm times 1.6 to get actual focal length) on a 20D and other small sensor cameras (Rebel and Rebel XT).  The crop 1.6 crop is not extra zoom -- it only appears that way, its actual lost information.  So, to telephoto photographers, this means you carry more weight than you need in physical glass and to wide angle photographers, it means its harder to find lenses that do true wide angle bc the sensor is too small to capture all the information.  EFS was designed so they could make smaller lenses at least so don't lose information but they're still labeled \"old school\" and you still have to multiply.  EFS was designed to take advantage of the smaller sensors on the 10D 20D Digital Rebel and Rebel XT.  The higher end Canon cameras use a 35mm size sensor.  People wonder if Canon will adopt bigger sensors for all lines and if they do, then EFS will probably go the way of the dodo.  On the other hand, bigger sensors are expensive to make so who knows where it will go and the 20D has very low noise at higher ISOs (used to be one of the reasons they thought bigger sensors would prevail -- that and the 35mm mindset and large number of lenses out there for 35mm).  I can't predict the future -- Canon seems to be still investing in both EF and EFS though and I think that for the next 3-6 years you're fine with either EF or EFS.I heard a rumour that Canon is planning to release a new camera between the 20D and their higher end 1Ds around December?  If you must have latest and greatest and have $4,000 to spend you might want to wait.  If true, I'm sure the chassis will cost $2,500 - $3,000 -- just rumours here.  I'm keeping my 20D until I can make money to justify more expensive than this extremely good camera.  In my opinion, this new camera would not supplant the 20D as much as it would provide Canon a more complete EOS Digital line from Digital Rebel all the way up to the 16.7megapix 1Ds -- they'd provide an true entry level Pro Camera in the $2,000 to $3,000 range.  Most interesting to me will be if it has 45pt autofocus and the size of the sensor.  Also interesting, Canon is releasing a new 60mm EFS f/2.8 Macro lens.  Good quality and interesting choice in focal length.  Amazon carries it.  I think Canon is telling us something with the type of EFS lenses they're releasing and the market they are targetting.  Keep watching Canon.Back to my 20D, I've only bought a 50mm f/1.8 lens for $79 and the kit lens and a tripod.  I can't wait to get a USM (ultrasonic silent 0.5 second focusing lens) with IS (Image stabilization) -- if I can only decide what type of photography. But with what I have, I've taken pictures that have floored my friends and everyone who has seen them.  Someone actually said, \"I'll pay you for that picture.\"  And that is a great complement to me and to the 20D and the complement goes to the 20D because my lenses are cheap! I am a huge Canon fan now and long and short of it, the 20D is an amazing camera and the best prosumer chassis out there (period!).", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "WOW!  The Best Prosumer Digital SLR out there Period!", "unixReviewTime": 1113609600, "reviewTime": "04 16, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A34AZ7SNO4ZQ6C", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "Barefoot Graphics \"KS\"", "helpful": [15, 15], "reviewText": "I love the D20!! The lens that comes with the kit is not as bad as posted. Look above at pics I posted last night in the photo share area above.  It is really what you do with it.  It is small, light weight, which is a plus. It isn't an L lens, but it is worth having fun finding it's plus's.  It is a fun lens to start out with if you have just started your Canon lens collection and have no other lens to work until you get better.  Someone just starting with an SLR camera could do fine with this set, or with the Rebel XT and this lens. I just purchased the Canon 70-300 IS USM DO Zoom Lens and haven't had time to really put it to the test yet, but so far I really like the size and am looking forward to investigating its abilities and possibilities for the Motocross track.  So if you are wondering if you should purchase just the body or the kit, I would say if you are starting with Canon and don't have a wide zoom lens as yet, don't be swayed by the pros to not buy the kit.  For an extra $70, the kit is great and you will always have a pretty good little, light weight, backup. I have used it for a week while waiting for my new lenses to arrive and have had a great time. The camera of course has been alot of the fun too.  I started with the Rebel XT.  At first, I thought I wanted a smaller camera, but then found that the bigger lenses made holding the XT too hard for a long time.  My hands are not big, I am a lady, but it still didn't feel right, so I exchanged it for the D20.  I am glad I did.  I love the ease of use and changing settings as I think it is easier than the Rebel.  Also the D20 is faster and I have really noticed that.  As for the kit lens, if you are going to walk around for a long time and don't want to have the weight of a richer lens sometimes, this will work quite well as it is an 18-55, which is a nice range for just fun stuff.  As for the camera: I have just changed from another name brand manufacturer, which I have been with for sometime and am so happy for the change.  I never expected I would switch from ----- to Canon, but am sooo happy I did.  :>)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The lens in the kit  isn't so bad!", "unixReviewTime": 1130025600, "reviewTime": "10 23, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A9Y5O2R4D6EH5", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "Careful shopper", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "Bought the 20d body this summer and now with 5 months & 6000 photos to it's credit, it's still making me glad I bought it.Runs all day on a charge and features are easy to find and use.You can see all the tech features on this camera anywhere.. I'm just here to say, I have no reason to look at other cameras in this price range (or even above) with envy !I'm a person that only upgrades when the equipment is holding me back, and I don't see that happening.  Yes, cameras will improve and have more features in the future... will I need them ?  I doubt it.  I reserve 5 stars for perfect items, and what ever is?  but it was tempting to use 5 in this case.A very happy 20D owner 8-)", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "6000 photos later...", "unixReviewTime": 1131926400, "reviewTime": "11 14, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A377LPVLLAI42D", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "Chris", "helpful": [29, 29], "reviewText": "If you want the full hard core review of this camera you need to be looking somewhere like [...] because there's far more to this camera than a normal user will ever meet.Having said that we are left with just the little bits and pieces a normal user would use.The camera is actually a little smaller than optimal for a person with average sized hands, the little finger of the right hand has nowhere to sit and the EOS10D actually feels better. But in normal use you won't notice this. The viewfinder is small, in many cases you just have to trust that it really has done a good job of focus because there isn't enough image for you to see for yourself. I find it quite difficult to be certain that I even have the camera level. It's also not the brightest viewfinder you ever saw.Battery life is very good, even powering an image stabilized lens, I just filled a 1Gb card on a single battery, that's a few hundred images and the battery still isn't showing low.Dust has been a small issue, there are cameras now that will clean their own sensor but this isn't one. I eventually found a good hand air blower. You can not use canned air or a brush to clean the sensor, either can damage the camera badly. Once I got the dust off, it was there from new, it has remained clean. So maybe it's not that much of an issue. I use Tokina 24-200, Canon 50mm and Sigma 80-400 OS EX lenses, so I do change the lens fairly often, so perhaps dust isn't that big an issue.Switch on is unbelievably fast, slow switch on times have cost me numerous shots with other cameras, with the 20D the camera is on by the time you realize the switch has clicked into place. Speaking of which, on a camera with excellent ergonomics the on-off switch is about the only thing that doesn't come to hand well, but it's not a factor in normal use. Just not perfect.Low light performance has been excellent, the camera will shoot at 800 or even 1600 ASA with no apparent noise. You can even configure it to use 3200ASA, but you get significant noise effects with some faint horizontal lines and grain like effects, though I was shooting under sodium light. Even at 3200ASA the pictures are better than with fast print film under similar conditions.You do need to be mindful that the exposure controls on this camera really do do what they say, you need to keep your eye on the shutter speed and aperture to get the shot you think you want, this isn't an instant camera that will just make the most of it. Most of the time the idiot modes, sport or scenic or whatever, will actually do a good job of picking the right settings. If you are in a hurry then use the built in functions. For example, in sports mode it switches to predictive autofocus, shutter priority and continuous shooting, which are all good choices.The autofocus is excellent, however in programmed modes you need to pay attention to which of the focus zones it has actually selected. If there is something closer to you than the subject you may need to select the correct focus point, fortunately this is very easy to do, you can hit the control and then select the focus point using the joystick, both with your right thumb.Another minor irritation to me is that if you are using the fully auto mode, which does a very good job of most things, it will sometimes select the flash even though the autofocus should tell it that the subject is way out of range. Perhaps I expect too much?Picture quality? Well, unless you have an absolutely perfect lens and need to make 36\" wide posters you are unlikely to find that the camera is a limiting factor. I'm actually waiting to see an Epson R1800 because the current generation of printers can't reproduce the quality I have available with this camera and my lenses.The built in flash is inadequate and the flash metering is soometimes poor, I was taking pictures near a road recently and whenever a reflective sign was in shot the picture was under exposed. Recharge times are pretty poor too, but I think the built in flash should be regarded as an emergency or backup method only, if you are serious then you need a serious flash. I'll be adding either the Speedlite 580EX or a Metz 54 flash in the near future.I'll also be adding an L-series lens in place of the Tokina, the Tokina is OK, but not good enough for my brothers wedding.Would I buy it again? Sure. Will I trade for the next great EOS digital to come on the scene? Unlikely. Maybe if it has a larger viewfinder and a 35mm sensor, but this camera already does way more than I need.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Almost perfect -but not quite", "unixReviewTime": 1118448000, "reviewTime": "06 11, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A4WEZJOIZIV4U", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "Chuck Bittner \"Disabled comedian & gamer!\"", "helpful": [18, 19], "reviewText": "If you're reading this review, chances are, you wanna make the hop to digital SLR from regular digital.  I just did and it is amazing.  I must say, for about five years a use regular digital cameras.  I wish I had gone digital SLR years ago.  I think of all the shots that I've missed because of shutter lag once you go digital SLR you will not go back.One thing about purchasing a digital SLR that you need to keep in mind is.  It's all about the lenses!  If you're buying this camera do yourself a favor get a good piece of glass.  I will have links to sites that have reviews of lenses.This thing will take 24 shots in a row.  That is just so great!  With the 8.2 megapixel, you can print 36 x 24 perfectly.  The images are just huge.  One thing I do like also with his camera, as opposed to the digital rebel.  Is that you can capture a JPEG high Quality and raw image simultaneously.  Now I don't use raw images very much yet, but I will of the future I'm sure.  the rebel is raw and normal quality pictureOne other thing I would recommend in relation to this camera is drop a couple dollars on a good flash.  I've just started recently using an external flash the 580 EX and I must say lighting is where it is at!Now, should you get the Canon 20 D. with the included lens it depends, the lens package is only $100 more.  And it's an okay lens, but the other ones in the Canon family are way better.Info on crop factor-------------------------------What happens, if I understand things correctly, is that a full size sensor capture the same amount of data as a 35mm film would. A sensor with a 1.3 factor means that the 35mm film area is 1.3 times as large as the sensor, and the same with a 1.6 sensor.Think of it as simply chopping off some of the data that a 35mm full-frame sensor would capture. Imagine a ruler, where the 35mm camera would capture the full 12\" stretching across the frame. If you then put a 1.3 sensor camera in the same location and took the same picture (assuming the same lens, camera mounted on the same tripod in the same location relative to the ruler) the camera's picture would only show the middle 9 inches (approximately). Now if both cameras produce the same size files, e.g. 8MB pictures, you have one picture at 8MB showing a full 12 inches and one picture at 8MB showing only the middle 9 inches. If you print them both at the same size, the picture taken with the 1.3 sensor will appear to be larger.However, full-frame sensor cameras usually shoot larger MB pictures, so you lose the 1-to-1 relationship between the two pictures. The full-frame cameras shoot at 12MB or larger, so if you then crop THAT image to be 8MB in size by chopping the outer 1/3 (1/6 from each edge) and you will see the same thing as you see with the 1.3 sensor.So it's not really that the 1.3 sensor magnifies the image, it just APPEARS to magnifiy the image. And since in photography it really is all about appearances, in one sense it does magnify things. But not actually, when everything is put on a 1-to-1 basis, the image isn't actually larger.What that crop factor DOES do, though, is to reduce the size of the image you can get with the same lens. That means that you either have to move back if using the same lens to get the same field of view, or you have to use a shorter lens to get the same field of view from the same location.That is where the 1.3 factor or 1.6 factor becomes important in deciding how to shoot a scene, especially for people who are coming to digital from the film world. So when you put your 50mm lens on a 20D, it becomes effectively a 80mm lens (50mmx1.6=80), with the reduced field of view that an 80mm lens would give. So to get the same field of view that you would get with a 50mm lens on a 35mm film body, you need to put a 32mm lens on a 20D body if you are standing in the same spot as with the film camera.Again, since what we see is of utmost importance in photography, you are actually seeing a magnified image, when both images are printed straight to paper. But if the images are made to be the same size by cropping the larger file to equal the smaller file, there isn't really magnification.-----------------------------------just fyiOkay, hope this helps have some fun-and-get-it-done!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "This camera totally rocks I'm blown away", "unixReviewTime": 1132963200, "reviewTime": "11 26, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A261F44AHV9Z6E", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "Divemountain", "helpful": [18, 18], "reviewText": "I received my 20D last week and have been finding excuses to take out the camera to take great pictures.  Start up on the camera is indeed almost instantaneous - as quickly as you can get the viewfinder to your eye, it's ready for you. Being able to use my existing EF lenses was the primary consideration for me and because it costed $5K less than its big brother. One minor quibble that I have with this camera is its lack of spot metering.  In some circumstances this would come in very handy but 99% of the time, center weighted would be fine.I would strongly recommend the extension grip for this camera.  Partly because it has the dedicated portrait shutter button and the shutter speed dial but more importantly it extends the grip in landscape mode just a tad bit more.  The added height and other features that the extension grip adds more than justifies for the added weight. The grip can also accomodate a second battery.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great Camera", "unixReviewTime": 1100563200, "reviewTime": "11 16, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A5JLAU2ARJ0BO", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "Gadgester \"No Time, No Money\"", "helpful": [24, 25], "reviewText": "I'm not going to repeat all the accolades others have bestowed on this great interchangeable-lens digital SLR.  I just want to add a few real-user observations:1) The 20D is a very solid camera in your hands.  From the hefty weight to the sizable size and the solid grip, it makes you feel you are holding a real SLR, unlike with the Digital Rebel (EOS 300D).  BTW this is assembled in Japan instead of Taiwan (300D).2) The camera is very fast.  It's not \"instant on\" like the Nikon 70D but it's still damned fast with very littel shutter lag.  When you use a high-speed CF card, the shot-to-shot performance is satisfying for most fast-action scenarios.3) Great auto focus, great exposure, and great picture quality.  Canon's expertise in combining optics and electronics once again shines through.  The prints made from this baby, and in part thanks to the 8MP resolution, is just total pro-quality.4) The kit lens is not really that good, unlike what Nikon bundles in their kits.  It's still a high-quality lends but the max aperture is slow and the lens itself looks and feels cheap.5) The old photography wisdom about how an expensive camera does not turn an amateur into a pro overnight still applies.  At least you can impress your girlfriend with cr*p that looks like gold for a second there.  :)  (sorry didn't mean to sound sexist...)The EOS 20D is one AWESOME digital SLR.  If you are real serious about getting a high-quality SLR, consider the 20D or its Nikon competitor, not a low-priced model.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Very solid, great quality, but cheap-looking lens", "unixReviewTime": 1102896000, "reviewTime": "12 13, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A2UEPQFGYRGRMA", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "Gregory E. Smith", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "Fast, accurate, and produces amazing results.  I take lots of indoor shots in low light, even indoor sports shots (I use two fast Canon zoom lenses) and they come out unimaginably beautiful with the 20D's amazingly clean  ISO 1600 performance.  The camera reposnds instantly, and focuses so fast I almost never perceive any lag at all.  The camera is built like a tank with a very solid feel, and the 5 fps shutter has earned me an unbelieveble collection of sports action shots I could not have gained otherwise.Cons?  I wish the current ISO setting was displayed in the viewfinder, and the shutter is a little louder than my old Minolta 7000i (film SLR).  However, this camera feels like an extension of my hand when I am holding it, and I have no plans to replace it for several years.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A fantastic camera in all ways", "unixReviewTime": 1123718400, "reviewTime": "08 11, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1EGD8EGNINP52", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "Isaac S. Kohane \"zakthehack\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "This is my 5th digital camera. Previously had used my trust EOS-1N and just accepted that my pictures were going to be a lot worse and (because of &#62; 1 second latencies) never in the thick of the action. The 20D is my first digital camera experience that brings me back to the EOS-1N experience. Wonderful. Latency is subsecond and enough to catch my kids in full unposed action and the photographs are looking good again. As this is an SLR I had to give up my habit of using the LCD to frame the shot. Also realized that this camera does not take video (another newer habit from the other digital cameras).", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Low latency,  amazing quality", "unixReviewTime": 1100908800, "reviewTime": "11 20, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A3IPSECQAUAT8V", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "JanSobieski", "helpful": [429, 441], "reviewText": "And that includes all the offerings from Nikon, Olympus, and Minolta/Konica. I LOVE this camera.  The 10D was felt by many to have focusing issues and though I did not have any significant problem with my 10D in that regard the 20D represents a substantial improvement in this area.  Canon still is not offering (in this price range) a camera with eye control or 45 focusing points, BUT the nine focusing points that ARE offered are well placed and the camera focuses quickly and surely resulting in tack sharp photos.The pictures this camera takes are simply beyond belief.  Beautifully saturated, tack sharp, NO, and I mean NO noise at 400 or below and barely discernible noise all the way up to 1600 ISO.  For all practical purposes 1600 ISO is an entirely usable speed resulting in fantastic pictures.  What Canon has accomplished in reducing noise and increasing pixel density proves that they are, for now, the technology leader.Another big advantage over the 10D is the instant on feature which does not leave you sitting there helplessly until the camera turns on.  That happens instantly!  A new flash system, ETTL II is a vast improvement over the 10D.  And, to my eye, there is an improved dynamic range with slightly less blown highlights.The in camera processing results in far more pleasing pictures than the previous 10D or Digital Rebel.  This camera has a greater burst (more pictures quicker) that the previous 10D.Now there is currently an issue with mirror lockups reported by probably 10% - 20% of all owners.  If you encounter this problem before you update the firmware then simply take the battery out of the camera, reinsert it, and you're good to go.  Canon has issued a fix and it is available on their web site.  It completely remedies the problem so, not to worry!One of the greatest things about digital photography is the ability to build a digital dark room for next to nothing. With the included Photoshop Elements you are well on your way to producing pictures that you could only have imagined in the pre-digital days. I am able to recoup pictures that I never would have considered salvageable before this camera.The other thing I like about Canon is the lens system which IMO is second to none. Also, Canon continues to innovate at a furious pace driving the price of these digital cameras relentlessly downward.I sold my 10D to purchase this camera and for me it represented a significant improvement more than justifying the cost of the upgrade.So, I LOVE the camera. LOVE Canon. And LOVE digital. All in all I'd say I'm a pretty happy camper!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The best digital camera available for the money!", "unixReviewTime": 1096243200, "reviewTime": "09 27, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A78OW26K0MT31", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "J___", "helpful": [21, 22], "reviewText": "This is my 4th digital camera, the previous 3 being point and shoot and I still have my latest point and shoot for the movie capability (S1 IS).  The 20D is also my second SLR, my first SLR I still have after 23 years, but more for sentimental reasons, these days.I did a lot of research before deciding on this camera.  Original research started about a year before the purchase, but, at that time did not have a need for DSLR until now.  My primary reason for going to DSLR is for the low-noise as it is very important for astrophotography.Similar to another reviewer, I also considered the 350D and the Nikon D70.  I had some advantage regarding the D70 as my brother owns one.  The heated decision came between the 350D and the 20D.  Size/weight were only a minor consideration for me, but I really did like the metal body of the 20D.  I found sites with samples of astrophotos from the 350D as well as the D70.  The D70 has an inherent heat problem for long exposures and develops a \"hot area\" in the upper left portion of the images.  The noise reduction it has is effective for reducing this, but I just didn't like the fact that it existed.  Comparing 350D results to 20D, well, one would be pressed to notice the differences.  However, in looking closely at review sites (such as dpreview), even they admitted the clarity on the 20D edged out the 350D (what is nice, you can see for yourself in their images).  No, not a big difference at all, but I am wanting the best of the 2 at this point.In the end, my decision was for the 20D mostly because this is the very camera Canon themselves used to create a camera purely for astrophotography - the 20Da.  My thought is, if Canon chose this, there is a reason.  I did not want the 20Da, however, as I plan to use the 20D for \"normal\" shooting, as well...but I was sold on the 20D.Having used it for more than a week, I put it through some gruesome tests...including, of course, long exposures.  I wanted to check for hot pixels at 30 sec exposures.  The short version is: I checked with the Canon 5D results on dpreview and my results are on par with it...and the 5D price is nearing 3 times the 20D price.Also, in more tests, I have found the 20D noise reduction has improved (I am guessing with the newer firmware my camera has) over what the results are on the dpreview site.Oh, and of course (for fun) I compared results from the point and shoots I have/have had.  I still have results from my A40 and S1 and, at ISO400 the point and shoots are blown so far out of the water you just can't find them.I am a very happy person.  An outstanding camera.Canon 20D: Highly recommended on all points.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best of the Best", "unixReviewTime": 1140220800, "reviewTime": "02 18, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A7JGEKN140F4S", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "Keith \"kc31824\"", "helpful": [20, 22], "reviewText": "This camera is loaded with professional features that others have done a much better job detailing than I possibly could.  The main takeaway for an amateur is that if you choose to learn a lot more about photography, you're not going to need to upgrade your camera to keep up -- it's there and waiting for you to advance.But forgetting all that, there are two good reasons for stepping up to this camera over the lesser consumer ones (if you can afford it) even if you're never going to use all those features.1. Picture quality -- absolutely awesome.  Even if you do nothing more than learn what 3 or 4 of the different point and shoot modes do, you'll feel like a pro with the quality of images that come out of this.  There's one dial to turn to choose your mode -- you can keep it on the all purpose green mode, or switch to a portrait (which gives that cool blurred background look), or sports mode, or night mode.  There are a couple others, but these are the main ones I use.  The images are simply far superior to anything I took with mid-range cameras ($500ish) in the past.2. Speed.  My biggest complaint with lesser cameras is the time it takes (1) to turn on, (2) from pressing the shutter to getting the picture (the kids are in a different spot than when I started the picture) and (3) the write time between pictures.  Those are completely solved with this camera.  It turns on right away.  The \"shutter lag\" (2) is negligible.  And it has a buffer to store a number of pictures in cache to write out to the disk so you can rapid fire pictures in an action situation.For family photos, this is a pretty big investment.  But given that these memories are \"priceless\" and given the quantity of pictures we print -- if I look at it on a monthly basis it seems worth it to step up from the mid-range consumer cameras.Downsides to consider (relative to lower end cameras):- This is big -- it's a lot to carry around- It's clearly expensive and you'll probably want to add on to it with an extra lens, a flash, high speed storage card, etc.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A review for amateur photographers like me", "unixReviewTime": 1115164800, "reviewTime": "05 4, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "ABLOQZIL42W7I", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "kone \"kone\"", "helpful": [25, 26], "reviewText": "I own this camera, my second digital camera, and I am exceptionally happy with it!  I will not go into all the technical details about this camera, as this information is available in the product description and in other reviews.  I will say that this is not a camera for one just getting into digital photography.  This is a (near) professional quality instrument and has so many options that one not grounded in digital photography would be quickly overwhelmed.  It is also higher priced than the typical consumer-grade digital camera, with an asking price of right arund $1400 dollars at the time of this writing.  Once you add a couple of filters, a telephoto zoom lens, and some other accessories, you quickly have an investment of over $2,000 dollars.  Thus, this is not a camera for the masses.If you are looking for a camera that provides you with all the versitility of a SLR quality film camera, you have come to the right place.  Canon's 20D will absolutely overwhelm you with its extensive options!  This is truly a versitile instrument that will allow you to do virtually anything in photography!  I don't think it is an exaggeration to say that the Canon 20D is the best camera for its price in its class. It blows the competition away.The camera body has a firm heavy feel to it.  It is not a miniature digital camera at all.  It fills and fits the hand nicely, much like a SLR should feel.  The buttons, wheels, and controls are all within finger reach, but there are so many options that one has a pretty good learning curve to be proficient with the camera.  By the way, the instruction manual is well over 150 pages, and it does a mostly adequate job of introducing the camera controls to the operator.  Still, it has taken me several weeks of use and review to learn the camera's many features and then remember them so that the operations are automatic.The pictures I have taken are very pleasing.  One can shoot in low light, bright light and all conditions in-between.  A flash is available and pops up automatically if desired for additional light.  This camera takes excellent pics in low-light conditions.The lens that comes with the camera is acceptable and I am pleasd with the sharpness of the images produced.  Other reviewers have stated that compared to fixed focal length lenses, such as the 50 mm, the variable zoom lens is not as sharp.  My view is that the lens provided is very adequate for virtually all applications, however, if the operator wants the very sharpest images possible, especially for portrait work, then perhaps a fixed focal length lens is beneficial.  I purchased a EF-S 28-135 IS lens for a telephoto zoom, and am happy with it.  Again, the quality of the zoom does not approach that of the Canon \"L\" series lenses, but then how many consumers can afford a single lens that is over $4,000 dollars?  From my perspective as an amateur that shoots a lot of images, I think the 20D is more than adequate for my needs.I highly recommend this camera to any amateur photographer that seeks a highly versitile top-quality camera that is a definite cut above the rest.  If you can afford this camera, buy it.  It will give you the creative options a photographer desires in a camera, and will give years of pleasure.Jim \"Konedog\" Koenig", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Short and Sweet - This is a #1 Camera!", "unixReviewTime": 1124064000, "reviewTime": "08 15, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2W9GX82SLKROQ", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "Lenny", "helpful": [14, 17], "reviewText": "This review is targeted mainly at amateurs looking for their first digital SLR - someone like myself, that is.My main purpose for getting this camera is to take picture of my kids. Sure, it's big and heavy, but it's really fast (shutter release as well as focusing) and the low light performance is fantastic - all critical for taking pictures of kids at play. My main issue with my Nikon 5700 is slow focusing (esp. in low light) and dismal flash performance (with built in flash). This camera has no such issue. In low light it uses the flash for AF assist.Compared to the 300D (which is a great camera too), the 300D feels like a toy. The plastic body of the 300D just doesn't feel as good as the metal body of the 20D. But the main reason I got this is for the low noise photos at high ISO settings.You cannot use the LCD as a viewfinder. This is probably the case with all digital SLRs (I've only tried a few - the reviews usually assume you already know about such things and don't mention it). This means you'll not be able to take well framed shots from strange angles.Finally, be prepared to spend a lot more. The 18-55 EF-S is an okay lens, but you'll soon start wishing for more. A kit with the EF-S 18-85 IS USM will be a better value - but I can't seem to find it anywhere.Anyway, be prepared to spend a lot more. An extra battery or two (few things worse than a digital camera with no power), lenses (unless you already have a good collection of Canon lenses), filters, flash. The good thing is, other than the battery, you don't need to rush out and buy all the rest of it now. This is a camera to grow into as you learn, and you can pick up a piece or two as you go on. And the major investment - the lenses - will continue to serve you as you upgrade the camera body 3 to 5 years down the road.Don't throw (or eBay) that compact digital camera away. You'll still need it for the times when a bulky camera is not convenient. But this camera will give you lots of fun if you enjoy photography.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great for pictures of kids, lens could be better", "unixReviewTime": 1105660800, "reviewTime": "01 14, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2J9XYLB9WWEF4", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "Mark Bookworth \"MB\"", "helpful": [34, 38], "reviewText": "If you have the cash to spare and love taking photos there is only one thing to know.  Buy a 20D.  As soon as possible.  You will be thrilled.  There is no doubt that it is among the best cameras the world has ever seen.  I did my research before deciding to buy a 20D.  I looked seriously at the Nikon D70, another excellent digital SLR camera and a fair bit cheaper than the 20D, but I chose the 20D for its ruggedness, slightly larger 8mp sensor, and outstanding autofocus.What is amazing about this camera?  Put it on automatic and squeeze the shutter release.  In a second you have taken 5 shots.  You can take 20 in four seconds, each 8 megapixels in size while the autofocus tracks your running toddler.  It feels GREAT in your hand, very sturdy and not overly heavy.  Perhaps  a tad bulky compared to the digital camera you may be used to.  But I find it a joy to hold and use.It can speed up to ISO 3200 without introducing excessive noise into the image and at 1600 and 800, noise is almost unnoticeable.  That means you can take handheld photos without flash indoors in the evening under ambient room light conditions (the 50mm mentioned below, with its large maximum aperture helps too in this regard).You could spend days researching lenses and accessories.  If you are just wading in to high-end amateur photography, let me make some quick and dirty suggestions:The kit lens (EF-S 18-55mm) is a very good lens for the insanely cheap price of $100.  The EFS 17-85 which pros rave about is pricey at $600 and you don't need the 55-85 range much I find -- you will probably consider a decent telephoto (like a 70-300mm) to be a better use of your cash.  You may well grow tired of the 18-55 eventually, but it does give you access to wide angle shots at a cheap price.You absolutely MUST buy the ($75) 50mm f1.8.  It is a truly outstanding lens for headshots and portraits.  It has fantastic depth of field control allowing you to achieve a nice background blur, and is very very sharp within the depth of field.  You will use this lens a lot.  Some say it's cheaply made.  Probably, but it works wonders and the price is definitely right.  50mm was standard on analog SLRs supposedly due to its rough equivalence to how the human eye observed a scene.  On the 20D it becomes an 80mm lens due to the 1.6x crop factor, and at that length becomes the perfect portrait lens in my view.If you want to photograph ships, houses and palaces, the EF-S 10-22mm f3.5 is a treasure that'll set you back $800.  It's definitely not a good general purpose lens, but how cool is it to have a wide angle zoom?You do NOT need a high speed compact flash card, but you DO need a big one.  If you have a 4x 512MB CF, keep it and it will work well with the 20D.  A 256MB card will fill up pretty fast as you will become addicted to firing off several shots at once.  Sure the 1GB cards are down in price considerably, but don't throw out your old 256 or 512s.  The buffer on the 20D is very large, and will transfer the images from the camera to the card during idle time quite happily.  Of course if you want to run off 30 images in 6 seconds, go for the ultra or 80x cards.  You don't need my advice either.Buy it and love it.  You'll never go back.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Magic in your hand", "unixReviewTime": 1107993600, "reviewTime": "02 10, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2EAEMXIP09MKO", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "M. Miller", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "This camera is really great.  I knew I liked it before, but I immediately began to appreciate this camera all the more when I ended up with a Rebel XT as a \"loaner\" while my 20d was in repair.Not that the XT is a bad camera, it just doesn't really compare to the 20d.The 20d has a nice feel to it; it is fairly large, which is great since I have somewhat large hands.  The features are great too.  And the image quality is awesome.  I don't really need to go into all of the details, as most of the other reviewers have done an excellent job.  Let me just say that it is a great camera and is worth the five stars.The only complaint I have about the camera is that it doesn't have spot metering.  The ability to do your light metering off of a single point of interest would be great - and they did add it to the 30d.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "An absolutely wonderful camera", "unixReviewTime": 1154131200, "reviewTime": "07 29, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A21WBLB8KAFE1U", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "Mr. Paul Walsh", "helpful": [19, 20], "reviewText": "I have this camera about 4 months now, and I'm still in awe. It is just brilliant.  The body is very robust. It isn't light, but feels solid in your hands. It's well balanced and easy to grip.The battery life is just great.  I've taken about 1200 photos on a single battery charge.  I have not yet even considered the need to buy the extension battery grip with an extra battery.All the functions are within easy finger reach. It is so easy to adjust the settings as you go. I am still learning how to use things.  I guess so far I've taken in excess of 20,000 photos.One little gripe would be sensor dust. I've a small speck of dust somewhere (on the sensor I assume), and I can't seem to get rid of it.  Nothing to ruin my photos though.  It's not an uncommon thing with any dSLR.  A cleaning kit is essential with this camera.I already have a small collection of Canon lenses. The combination gives me excellent quality photos.Bottom line - if you're thinking of buying a Digital SLR, this one should come very high on your list of options. I would recommend it to everyone.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "High quality, great price", "unixReviewTime": 1122336000, "reviewTime": "07 26, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A376OJHLE6SU9Q", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "M. Wolf", "helpful": [22, 24], "reviewText": "Excellent Camera!!!Pros:shutter lag is about the same as a film SLR5 frames per second!!!The Sigma lens for my Canon EOS film camera work well with the digital.Battery life is good (even with that I strongly recommend at least one back up battery)Picture quality is amazingCons:If you are not used to the size of SLR cameras this may seem rather big; however with a good neoprene neck strap the weight is not as noticeableSet at maximum resolution it fills up memory cards quickly - Hitachi makes a good 2 and 4 gig micro drive that is fairly inexpensive compared to other compact flash memoryI have had this camera for about 4 months now and am very happy with it.  I do a lot of bird photography.  The lack of noticeable shutter lag and the ability to shoot 5 fps have helped me capture some amazing shots of the birds in my back yard.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Worth the money", "unixReviewTime": 1115424000, "reviewTime": "05 7, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A284Y9E8UP7FNJ", "asin": "B0002XQJFA", "reviewerName": "Online Shopper", "helpful": [62, 73], "reviewText": "I've owned most all the previous versions of the Canon dSLRs and have many Canon lenses.  Lately, however, I been trying to decide between the 20D and the Nikon D70 (which has a better lens with the kit version), especially since I've heard of numerous issues with the 20d.  Well, I've now tried both and here's my assessment of the 20d.What I like about this camera:- Very fast all the way around- Nice look and size to the camera- 8MP CMOS sensor is great- I generally like the Canon lenses better than Nikon'sWhat needs improvement:- Flash pictures are very often underexposed and not consistent- Mirror click is louder than on previous models, making unobtrusive shots difficult- 18-55mm lens in kit looks and feels cheap- Camera seems to lock up often (probably an early firmware bug that will be fixed)Overall a camera with great potential, but I'm going to go with the D70 until Canon fixes the flash and lockup issues.  The flash is probably the deal-killer for me - it takes worse flash pictures than my Canon S400, especially for quick, casual shots (a $1500 camera should do better!).  The D70 is a mature camera and has no such problems (even though it's not quite as fast).I'm going to hold on to my Canon lenses and hope for a fix or wait for the next version.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Almost Perfect", "unixReviewTime": 1096329600, "reviewTime": "09 28, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A33DID2OC6N9IK", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer \"The Grumpy Moose\"", "helpful": [48, 52], "reviewText": "This is one terrific lens! It solves the problem of wide-angle coverage in the 1.6 FOVCF very nicely. As others have pointed out, the mechanical build and optical quality (with 3 Aspherical elements and 1 Super-UD) probably deserve an \"L\" stamp and a red ring. This lens appears to be of almost identical build, quality and size as the EF 17-40mm f/4.0 L USM. Even uses the same 77mm filter size as most of the L's. Overall sharpness is excellent, with maybe a little softness towards the corners at 10mm, but I've seen comparisons with other ultra-wide zooms like the Sigma and the Canon blows them away! CA is well controlled too. There is slight Barrel and Pincushion distortions present at the low and high ends, but less than would be expected for a lens this wide. All in all this is one of the best wide-angle zooms available.The major criticism of this lens usually comes down to; \"well, how long will Canon continue to make 1.6 FOVCF cameras?\" or \"Someday I might upgrade to a Full Frame camera, then what will I do with this lens?\" I doubt very seriously that Canon will do away with the APS-C cameras any time soon. My reasoning is that:1. Canon just came out with the Full Frame 5D at the $3000 price point. Introducing a FF camera to replace the 20D at $1500 would kill the 5D after only a few months.2. Having the EF-S lens line already established almost guarantees keeping the 1.6 format - mostly because of this lens. To be able to use the EF-S 10-22mm, a chip can't really go any bigger than 1.6 since this seems to be the limit of the useable coverage. Using a 1.5 or 1.4 sensor for example would probably start to introduce significant fall-off at the corners of the larger chip.As I am writing this, the PMA conference is only four days away. My prediction is that Canon will announce a replacement for the 20D that will, in essence be a 1.6 FOVCF version of the 5D. They will probably increase the (already excellent) density of the 20D's CMOS by shrinking pixel size down to around 5 micron yielding something around the 10 mega-pixel range to compete with the Nikon D200. Maybe they will call the camera the 50D after the 5D since they can't really use the name 30D because D30 was already used.In any case, my point is that the 1.6 APS-C format will likely be around for some time to come, until the point where the FF price point drops enough to warrant discontinuing the xxD line. Even then, when that happens, doesn't mean you'll throw your 20D in the trash! You'll still want to keep using it and/or sell it, and having this lens will significantly increase its usefulness or resale value.Now, having said all that, this is the only EF-S lens I plan on buying. From the reviews I've read, the other EF-S lenses are of significantly lesser quality, and all of your other lens needs can be met with standard EF lenses anyway, APS-C or otherwise. Plus you get the option to buy L glass.So, bottom line is buying this particular EF-S lens for a 20D or XT is a no-brainer. It's the best solution for wide angle in this format. Hesitating to buy it because \"I might get a FF camera someday\" is also nonsensical. What I might do in the future is just that, for the future. Not buying a mid-priced car today because \"someday\" I might buy a Ferrari doesn't satisfy my use and enjoyment of the car today!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "No excuse not to buy this lens!", "unixReviewTime": 1140048000, "reviewTime": "02 16, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AGXV8E7XK9J6H", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "Brian Koch \"Aspiring Photographer\"", "helpful": [19, 21], "reviewText": "This lens feels sturdy and is amazingly wide especially considering the 1.6X factor of the XT which makes lenses 1.6X narrower than normal.  So basically you have a 16-35 lens.  This is not really the best range for just everyday shooting so you really have to have a goal in mind when using this lens.  Landscapes that include close-ups along with lots of background are the main things that I use this lens for.  I have also used it for forest interior, sunrise/sunset, and indoor shooting.  All-in-all this is a very nice lens and if you have the need for such a lens this is a good choice.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Best Available wide-angle for the XT", "unixReviewTime": 1146182400, "reviewTime": "04 28, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2VVCF3XQV5F41", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "C. Hoy", "helpful": [10, 15], "reviewText": "I highly recommend this super wide angle lens for anyone wanting to take landscape pictures, buildings or lots of other stuff!It is so different than the standard kit lens (18-55). You won't be sorry when you start learning all the possibilities of the extraordinary lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Oh WOW -- This Super Wide Angle is Awesome", "unixReviewTime": 1148774400, "reviewTime": "05 28, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A15G70V9OBTOVO", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "Coronet Blue", "helpful": [78, 142], "reviewText": "I can hear the comments already.  \"You must have gotten a bad one\" etc.  I grant you, one cannot expect perfection (or even consistent quality?) for $675.  And I have no doubt that the Sigma ultra wide zoom is even worse.  But based on the comments I read I wasn't prepared for the results this lens produces.I'm not going to boast about how long I've been taking photos.  But for the benefit of those who are new to this stuff let me summarize.  There are no bad macro lenses (not even Sigma).  There are virtually no bad telephoto lenses.  There aren't even many bad telephoto zooms anymore.  Not surprisingly, Canon's L lenses in these categories are excellent and so are most of their non-L lenses and everybody else's lenses too.  Low dispersion, aspherics, apochromatic correction--these days, everybody's got 'em.But just as there are no bad 80-200mm lenses, there are no really exceptional wide angle zooms.  Read the comments on Canon's $1600, 16-35 L lens.  Its OK but neither the original or the new \"improved\" model is spectacular.  These lenses always have barrel distortion at the wide end, soft corners  and vignetting.  Some of this has to do with ultra-wides being used with digital sensors but the fact remains.OK, so I decided to go digital.  Since the 5D didn't even have a dust removal feature I decided to get a couple Rebels.  Picture quality from the Rebels is very similar to the 20D/30D and I'm not going to hammer nails with them so Rebels are fine.If you want any sort of wide angle with a Rebel or 20D/30D/40D, the 10-22 lens is pretty much it.  Besides, Canon's 20, 24, 28 are nothing special so why not get the zoom and if need be, use software like DxO to correct any lens flaws.  That was the plan but this lens just isn't sharp enough at the edges or in the corners.  It reminded me of a Spiratone/Sun 24-40mm zoom I had many years ago.  It was revolutionary, super convenient and very poor.I guess it depends what you are looking for.  If you are a real estate agent needing an adjustable wide angle for interiors and your images are for the web this lens would be fabulous.  It focuses very fast and its silent.  For a Canon lens its pretty small and light.  But make a crisp 8x10 print from an image taken at the 10mm setting?  I don't see how.I know everybody raves about this lens.  That's why I bought it.  I figured, in all those reviews there had to be somebody who knew what really good image quality was.  There were so few negative comments, I figured I'd take a chance.  Maybe I got a bad one but when something is this far off the mark I think I'll pass.GOOD NEWS - I'm delighted (and surprised) to report the Tokina 12-24 lens is really quite good.  No, you can't use it wide open and it barrels a bit, but at f/8 its downright sharp, right to the corners(!)  I know its not a Canon lens but give it a try.  Paint a red ring on it if you have to, but try it.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "What can I say?  Very soft.", "unixReviewTime": 1188691200, "reviewTime": "09 2, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AXBZI5KW1TKTD", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "David V.", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "I recently bought this lens, and even though I knew the mathematics, the increase in field-of-view it provides over the 17-85mm IS still surprised me when I first looked through that lens.  I'm in the process of selling a house, and this lens is great to take the indoor pictures for the various ads (although it's also easy to make every room look like a deep tunnel -- composition gets a little trickier).So far the imaging qualities seem to be better than any other lens I own (I don't have canon L-glass).  The construction is also quite good -- on par with the 17-85mm IS, I'd say.  Size and weight are also similar to the 17-85, which makes it a great match for a 20D camera.This lens' weakest feature is it's maximum aperture: f/3.5 at the wide end is not horrible, but I always long for faster optics.Not cheap, but it seems superior to the alternatives in its class.  (Note that 10mm offers a significant FOV increase of 12mm, even though the numbers seem close.)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "10mm FOV (16mm in 35mm terms) in view is refreshing", "unixReviewTime": 1141171200, "reviewTime": "03 1, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A121X1GOQV01DW", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "Gwac", "helpful": [32, 33], "reviewText": "(4.5 of 5 stars)This was my third lens purchase, after getting the kit lens with my Rebel XS and the 50mm f/1.8. Why did I choose this lens? Well for one, I was suffering from cheap lens syndrome. While I enjoyed the results I was getting from my other lenses, they weren't much fun to work with because of the cheap build quality. More importantly perhaps, I was finding myself at 18mm on my kit lens more than 50% of the time. While I was generally happy with those results, I was disappointed by the barrel distortion, CAs and flare, and wanted something wider that would give me more flexibility.I read many reviews of the 10-22mm, as well as the Tokina 12-24mm f/4 and 11-16mm f/2.8. All were received pretty positively. I didn't consider Sigma or Tamron options because of apparent quality control issues. So why did I pick this one?1) Focal length/zoom range: As far as focal lengths were concerned, I wanted something that would give me a fair amount of flexibility, since I'm not too keen on switching lenses frequently. At the wide end, it really does help to have a zoom. The 10mm (16mm equiv) setting is pretty extreme and can be useful, but often the intermediate focal lengths (12-17mm) are more appropriate. Furthermore, at 22mm the resulting perspective could be described as \"wide-normal\" - things still appear pretty natural. Therefore, you get a lens that dabbles with extreme perspective on the wide end while offering a fairly normal perspective on the long end.Those who are buying the lens purely for the widest setting may be more attracted to the Tokina 11-16, as it gives you nearly an extra stop in maximum aperture and is apparently a bit sharper than the Canon.2) Distortion: Some have commented that they don't use the 10-16mm range as much because of distortion. I imagine these are the same people who are using the lens as a substitute for backing up. In fact, the Canon offers the lowest amount of optical (barrel) distortion in its class - much smaller than most standard zooms at their widest setting. It is trivial to correct in post-processing. Therefore, I can only assume that the complaints are about the perspective distortion, which is the result of using the ultra-wide focal lengths. This is the whole point of an ultrawide lens!! If you don't want perspective distortion, back up and zoom in! Or if you're looking for parallel lines buy a full frame camera and the $2500 tilt-shift 17mm lens. Problem solved.3) Handling of flare: This is the single characteristic of this lens that I appreciate the most. Based on samples I've seen of the Tokinas and other 3rd party lenses, the Canon is the hands down winner on managing flare. With this lens it is possible to have the sun directly inside or just outside the frame with very little consequence to the final image. Even when you do manage to get flare in the frame, it is fairly minimal and not very unsightly. This is a very desireable characteristic of an ultrawide lens, since lots of light sources will find their way into your huge field of view. I find myself shooting into the sun even more than I normally would because of it. Another benefit of this characteristic is that there is little incentive to buy or use the bulky lens hood.4) Chromatic Aberrations: Compared to the Tokinas, this lens has minimal CAs at the wide end that many will be able to live with in their JPEGs. If you want to get rid of them, it is again trivial to do by shooting RAW and post-processing.5) Light weight: Despite being about the same size, the Canon is lighter compared to the Tokinas (13 oz. vs. 20 oz.). I feel that it is ideally balanced on my small Rebel XS, and therefore appreciate the weight advantage.6) Colors: Is it just me or does this lens render beautifully saturated colors? Wonderful green trees and gorgeous blue skies.Complaints:1) Price: The Canon is significantly more expensive than 3rd party alternatives, which is not unusual. Maybe more annoying, though, is that it is priced similarly to the full-frame equivalent, the 17-40mm L. Basically you're paying the same price for a lens with less glass and poorer build quality (though the build is not bad). As with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 Canon has put \"L\" glass in a consumer body and charges \"L\" prices because there's no in-house competition. On the bright side, compared to the Nikon equivalents (12-24mm and 10-24mm), which are around $900, this is cheap.I got this lens during rebate season, but I would have hesitated to spend more than $700 on it with the good 3rd party alternatives available.2) Sharpness: I must have had unreasonably high expectations in terms of sharpness. The lens produces excellent micro-contrast at normal viewing sizes (very good for all but the largest prints). However, looking at the images at full size on your monitor will reveal somewhat inferior pixel level detail. The results do respond pretty well to sharpening, though. Sounds like the Tokina 11-16 might be a little better in terms of pixel-level detail, but I wouldn't expect it to be too noticeable. For the best sharpness across the frame I try to keep the aperture between f/5.6 and f/8, and never smaller than f/11. Larger than f/5.6 the center is fine but the edges degrade. The only serious complaint is the extreme corners, but this is typical in almost all wide-angle lenses. In any case, I am of the opinion that sharpness is an over-emphasized lens characteristic. I will take the contrast, handling of flare, bokeh and low distortion of this lens over greater sharpness any day.3) Vignetting: This is most noticeable wide open at 10mm, but again is fairly easily corrected. Not a big deal to me.4) Not really a complaint, but a warning: The lens isn't very compatible with the built-in flash except at the longest focal lengths. A lens shadow appears at shorter focal lengths, and the flash is unevenly distributed anyway so the effect is pretty undesirable. Better keep the kit lens around when you want to use flash.Overall, I'm very happy with this lens. It has more or less displaced my kit lens, as I use my 50mm f/1.8 for any short tele needs. I should note, however, that dealing with wide focal lengths requires a lot more skill as a photographer in almost every respect: composition, selection of aperture, focusing, and metering. This is not a point-and-shoot lens. It is tempting to use the 10mm setting a lot but you will find with time that it does not suit all subjects equally well - Some of my favorite photos were taken at intermediate focal lengths, where the IQ of the lens really shines.This is a great photographic tool that will challenge you to be more creative. You will get the best results with this lens when you are thinking outside the box. In fact, some of my favorite photos from this lens are when I use it for close-ups. It's not by any means a macro lens, but the perspective distortion as well as the large apparent depth of field can make for some nice close-up shots with the right background. Regardless of the brand, I whole-heartedly recommend a wide-angle zoom to those who enjoy capturing big scenes or getting close to their subjects. It's challenging to use but fun and rewarding.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "An excellent but expensive ultrawide zoom", "unixReviewTime": 1242086400, "reviewTime": "05 12, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A21XREPFNR2154", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "G. Wagstaff \"Surfdog\"", "helpful": [21, 23], "reviewText": "I picked up this lens when I purchased my 30D.  All I can say is WOW!  What a terrific lens this is.  If not for the \"S\" designation it would probably be an \"L\" lens for sure.OK, so it won't work on the 5D & up...who cares..?  Frankly I don't see the point of the 5D.  It has nothing over the 30D in real life terms...might as well bite the bullet and head for the 1Ds Mark II.  In which case money can no longer be considered part of the equation...it's just a serious tool.If you own one of the cameras that can use it, or are thinking about such a move, by all means grab this one.  Yeah, other makers have a lens that's about the same but let's face it...nothing beats a quality Canon USM lens. And this is just that...a quality USM lens.Between this and the other lenses I just bought (24-70 f/2.8L & 70-200 f/2.8L), I may just have to put my Nikon F4s up for sale...or hand it over to my kids.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Huge WOW factor!", "unixReviewTime": 1145923200, "reviewTime": "04 25, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3RN7JDBB38AKS", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "Jeff", "helpful": [15, 15], "reviewText": "Let me jump right into filters for this lens.I spent hours looking on forums, review websites and even searching amazon reviews trying to figure out what uv filter to buy for this lens (for front element protection). I hope this post will save you much time so you can spend it out there shooting! My requirements for a filter were:No \"vignetting\" caused by the filter at 10mm.No reduction in image quality.Must have front accessory threads that would allow me to clip on canon standard lens caps.I eventually just gave up searching and decided to try theHoya 77mm HMC UV Digital Multi-Coated Slim Frame Glass Filterfilter that everyone seemed to be buying for this lens. This filter produced no vignetting even at 10mm at f/22. Images taken with and without the filter are almost identical. Image quality reduction is negligible with this filter. You may experience extra reflections from the filter when pointed at a bright light source, but I have not found this to be a problem in real world use. My canon lens cap attaches nicely to the filter and does not pop off randomly.I also own theB+W 65-073102 77mm Neutral Density 0.9-8x Filter #103which meets all my requirements listed above. I suspect any B+W filter with the newer F-Pro mount will not cause vignetting on this lens (because all my F-Pro B+W filters are precisely the same thickness) and may be your best choice optically.B+W 77mm Clear UV Haze with Multi-Resistant Coating (010M)is likely an excellent choice if you don't mind parting with the extra cash when compared to the Hoya filter.Also, I can stack the UV and ND filters on this lens causing only very slight vignetting at 10mm and no vignetting around 11mm.Awesome lens. Build quality is top notch for non L glass. Image quality is not quite as good when compared to theCanon EF 17-40mm f/4L USM Ultra Wide Angle Zoom Lens for Canon SLR CamerasorCanon EF 16-35mm f/2.8L II USM Ultra Wide Angle Zoom Lensbut getting equally wide with these lenses would require you to own a full frame body. I feel this is the best UWA choice for 1.6x sensors. TheTokina 11-16mm f/2.8 AT-X116 Pro DX Digital Zoom Lens (for Canon EOS Cameras)is tempting for f/2.8 but personally I felt I would mainly use a lens like this at around f/8 and find I do so in practice.The only reason I am only giving this lens 4 stars is for the high price assigned to a non L build quality lens. It would be nice to see weather sealing and the same plastics seen on the L series at this price point. I don't need the red ring... that's what they make rubber bands for :PI hope this helps you! Thanks for reading.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Filters For A Great Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1341273600, "reviewTime": "07 3, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A1YPWVS1V9P7DB", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "Jeff Kershaw \"Gadget lover\"", "helpful": [15, 18], "reviewText": "If you need a REALLY wide angle lens for your aps-c format Canon Slr, this is the one to get.  I played with the offerings from Sigma and Tokina, but this was the one which I chose and I am really happy with the choice.  Would be nicer if it were a touch faster or at least with a fixed max aperature.  With three aspherical lens elements, plus a Super-UD element, this lens should be a \"L\" series, a sentiment which you will find in the reviews here and elsewhere.  Besides that, it is priced like one too!  It doesn't matter what color the stripe on the lens is, what matters is how the photos look and in this area, you will not be dissapointed!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Super lens!", "unixReviewTime": 1121644800, "reviewTime": "07 18, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1H4WLPFV59XMA", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "Jim Krupnik \"jkrupnik\"", "helpful": [944, 985], "reviewText": "My take on this lens is that it is an \"L\" quality optic in a fine, non \"L\" package. There is nothing else on the market to compete with it (nothing at all), and it produces supurb images. It isn't an f/2.8 lens, but it is close enough for most uses. The competition from Tamron is a full stop slower, not as sharp, and is awful in dim light compared to the Canon 10-22 lens (sorry, Tamron fans, but the Tamron lens isn't even playing in the same ballpark).I use this lens on a 30D body, and I always keep it on hand if I'm doing any indoor, or tight group photography. It is the perfect solution to the perennial problem of not having enough room to capture all the kids at a birthday party in one shot because your back is up against a wall. This lens will just about get your toes into the picture at the widest setting, yet delivers tack sharp, colorful, and contrasty images. The auto focus is spot on, silent, and fast. It is a must have lens for the active amateur, or any pro using a 1.6 crop factor camera. You simply can't beat this lens with anything available on the market today.That beng said, do not try to convince yourself that this will make a good \"walkaround\" lens. It isn't. Even at max length, it is far too short to live on your camera as a standard lens. You need this lens, even if you don't know it yet, but it should not be your first lens, as it will only be used 15 to 20 percent of the time. At those times, it's performance simply cannot be equaled by any other zoom lens on a 1.6 crop factor camera. You will be amazed by the quality of this lens. It rivals the performance of modern prime lenses, presents a bright viewfinder image, and delivers the goods in tight situations.This is not a casual assessment, nor a Canon \"feel good\" moment on my part. I developed my first B&W; contact prints in 1964, in my own darkroom at the age of 9 (my parents were concerned:)), and have been an avid photographer ever since. Small, medium, and large format cameras and lenses have passed through my hands over the years, and Canon has become my favorite small format brand. Still, Canon builds some trash lenses that should be avoided. The 10-22 USM is not one of them :).Before you go out and buy this lens, you should already own the EF-S 17-55mm IS f/2.8 lens. That is the king of 1.6 crop factor standard lenses, and includes the awesome Canon IS feature. It will end up being mounted on your camera 80% of the time, and keep you smiling after every shoot. Get that lens first. Then, get the 10-22mm lens. Then, let your imagination run wild, and plan on serious telephoto lenses for the future. Trust me or not, the two lenses mentioned above will provide you with photographic tools that will astound you. Get them in your kit as soon as you can afford them.A little warning about either lens.... Some here will argue the point, but with either lens, get a GOOD quality UV filter that is multi-coated on both sides, and built extra thin to avoid vignetting at wide lens settings. A good filter will cost a little less than one hundred Dollars, and can cost up to one hundred forty Dollars. The minimum brand would be Hoya Pro 1 multi coated filters, and the ante goes up from there.Everything else is garbage, including the Canon \"sharp cut\" filter that costs less than fifty bucks. No kidding, no conjecture. If you use cheap filters, you will never see what your lens can really do. Ever. No doubt that many will respond with claims that their twenty Dollar filter works just fine, but they simply don't know any better, and have never used their expensive equipment to it's full potential. It's akin to a Chevy owner passing judgement on a Mercedes Benz. The Chevy might feel real good, but until you own the Mercedes, you just have no clue.Bottom line.... Make sure that the quality of your filters exceed the quality of your lenses. Yes, at a hundred bucks a pop for a 77mm filter, it hurts, but you will never regret it. Also, Amazon does not stock lens hoods for all non L Canon lenses. The price is stupid high for those hoods, but they make a night and day difference in in picture quality. Whenever you order a non L Canon lens, find a web seller who has the hood in stock, and get it right now. Again, you will never regret owning it.That's it for my review/rant. Buy this lens. Buy the 17-55 IS f/2,8 first. Buy the lens hoods for both. Toss any \"kit\" lenses that came with the camera in the trash bin (where they belong), and be very happy.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The answer to the crop sensor problem.", "unixReviewTime": 1163894400, "reviewTime": "11 19, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3ULCLCHPLPCDS", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "John Grooms", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I read a lot of reviews about this lens before making a purchase of my own. The 2 things I liked the most about what I read were the claims that Canon appeared to be using \"L\" glass, or near-\"L\" glass in this lens, and of course the main feature of having an ultra-wide angle capability with a 1.6 APS-C camera like my EOS 50D. I can say now after some field testing that this lens gets a 5-out-of-5 stars on both of these accounts.Crisp focus and tack sharp images seem to be trivial to achieve with this quiet USM AF lens. I found the best 50D lens micro adjustment on my camera to be +3, but also found +0 to be quite acceptable, using the LCD monitor/moire pattern tuning technique at both ends of the zoom range. What REALLY tooted my horn however was the new found capability to take shots that were simply not achieveable before with my 28mm lens. Whole rooms in the house became one-shot deals, as opposed to the cumbersome image stitching technique. Groups of people near by - no problem getting them all into 1 shot. Landscape challenges - a snap without having to back up and up some more, and still wind up stitching multiple images together. Of course, everything written about straight-line distortion at the 10mm end of the zoom is true, but not to an excess, and in my opinion is MORE than offset by the capability to simply \"get the shot all at once\". An indoor 6 story atrium that previously took 6 stitched photo's to capture - now easily captured in 1 shot.Focus was achieveable at a tiny bit over 4\" from the front of the lens. No IS on this lens, which I missed while trying some low-light shots (I kept waiting for IS to kick in out of habit, since all my other lenses are blessed with this feature), but this is only a concern on extreme close-up's, which is not generally what you'd use this lens for anyway.The lens has an AF/MF switch of course, and is only usable on certain camera's that are compatible with EF-S type lenses (there is tons of online info about that to be read elsewhere). The filter size is 77mm. There is a light hood available from Canon, which I don't own yet, and I've read that it's marginally beneficial for blocking light since it's so small in order to accomodate wide angle zooming without getting in the way. I'll still buy one and put it on for extra front-end lens protection at around $14. It's easy to bump in to things and a lens hood makes a lot of sense for that reason alone. Anyone who's ever bent the metal of a filter after lightly bumping in to something, and then struggled with filter removal, lens cap fitting, etc., will know just what I mean.I took some test shots with the built-in flash, and the 10-22mm lens does block the lower 5-10% portion of the picture at wider angle zooms. I was able to compensate for this in most shots by pointing the camera downward a bit more. Still, I'd recommend an external flash when using this lens, to take care of this interference and of course to get far superior bounce flash shots. There was no issue with the lens blocking any output from a camera mounted EX flash.No lens creep on this lens. The overall lens length does not change with zooming. The zoom ring is snug, but turns smoothly, as does the focus ring, which can be turned after AF'ing for any fine tuning of the focus. The subject end of the lens does NOT TURN when zooming, which is great for circular polarizers and other filters that need to stay oriented. The lens length is 4\" (with a UV filter attached) from the front of the lens to the camera body face.At first I thought this lens might be a specialty lens that I would only use when I needed whole room shots or was met with other wide angle challenges, but with an effective 35mm range on an APS-C camera, the quality of this glass makes it a candidate for a lot more uses as well, enabling quick access with a twist of the zoom ring to any action that comes in \"close\", or to capture 2 subjects that are not conveniently side-by-side, as is sometimes the case with candid photo's.I have to admit that I'm writing this review after taking less than 300 photo's with this lens, but the image quality and jaw dropping access to amazingly wide \"views\" that I've never had the ability to capture in one shot with a dSLR compelled me to brag \"now\" about this lens. If I encounter anything noteworthy after taking some more test shots under various conditions, I'll amend this post.In all honesty, it's hard to imagine anyone who has ever been challenged by a wide angle shot not immediately falling in love with this gem once they get in to the field with it. Five star thumbs up on this one.Canon EF-S 10-22mm f/3.5-4.5 USM SLR Lens for EOS Digital SLRs", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Blown away...", "unixReviewTime": 1248393600, "reviewTime": "07 24, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "AZS1Y9KI95XVC", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "LightnnRod \"LightnnRod\"", "helpful": [49, 53], "reviewText": "Another reviewer opined that this lens deserves the \"L\" rating, which Canon reserves for its very best and denotes by putting a red line around the barrel near the objective lens.  I agree.I guess Canon felt that the 3.5-4.5 max apertures were too small, making the lens a little slower than they like for their top models.  (So why the red line for the 100-400 zoom at 4.5-5.6?  Or the 17-40 zoom at 4.0?)  Maybe Canon thinks the 10-22 is not red-line material because it's an EF-S, usable only on Rebels and 20Ds.  Hey, it's almost a reason to buy a Rebel or a 20D  And its 77-mm business end assures LOTS of light gets to your CMOS.Okay, all that aside, in the real world this is an excellent, excellent lens.  It's so wide-angle you can almost look around corners with it.  Yes, it \"fisheyes\" at the lower half of its range of magnification.  (So what else is new for wide-angles?)  The 10-22 handles low-light conditions well.  I shot a street festival at twilight using ambient light only and have surprisingly bright, clear images.  Clear?  This lens knows nothing else.It handles macro/close-ups very well.This is not the lens I normally keep on my camera, but it's the one I ALWAYS slip into a pocket or bag before going out to shoot, because when I need wide-angle (and don't we almost always need wide-angle lens at some point in a shoot?), it delivers.  Big time.I can't say enough good about this the 10-22.  Don't hesitate to get this lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "So where's the red line for this excellent lens?", "unixReviewTime": 1120867200, "reviewTime": "07 9, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AR6APXLK7TJU2", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "L. Williams", "helpful": [19, 46], "reviewText": "I purchased this lens for my Canon 40D and have been very disappointed with the extremely soft images throughout the focal range of the lens. Yes, you can get a great wide angle shot on 1.6 factor cameras (Rebel, 10D, 20D, 30D, 40D and 50D) but the shots look like they were made with a barely acceptable point and shoot camera. I had hoped for much better from Canon. I've sent it to the factory for repair/adjustment 3 times, and it's always come back the same, with a lack of definition, barely acceptable saturation and no \"pop\".I did some test shots comparing the Canon 10-22mm with Sigma's 10-20mm, and the Sigma won by a mile, with at least twice the sharpness and saturation. Why buy a pricey lens only to get mediocre images--and my wife's cheap compact Fuji actually takes better images than this lens.I love shooting with Canon, but this lens now just sits in my bag, and I don't even feel good about selling it to someone else. Canon should never be putting out a lens with such obvious inferiority, especially at such relatively high cost. I don't know if mine is simply a bad lens, but I'd have expected that Canon's repair department would have corrected it with its 3 trips into the factory. Right now I just have a very expensive paperweight. My advice: Only buy at a local store where you can test each individual lens before buying to make sure you get a good one.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Very disappointed with this lens", "unixReviewTime": 1230508800, "reviewTime": "12 29, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A3FY1GXS48WR8B", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "M. A. Filippelli \"Marc12074\"", "helpful": [282, 299], "reviewText": "I have had this lens for several months now and let me start out by saying WOW. I looked at the lens in the store along with the Sigma 12-24 and I was in total awe of what I saw though the view finder with the Canon 10-22. This is an ultra wide angle lens that is incredible. I went home and thought about where I would use this lens and determined that I would use it quite a bit. I went ahead and bought the lens and I continue to be more impressed with it every time I use it. I have used the lens for both close-up (which can give you some very interesting distortion shots)and wide angle shots with great success.The 10-22mm is equivalent to 16-35mm field of view using a canon 20D which is not a full frame sensor. With a minimum focal distance of .24m (about 9.5 inches) you can get very close to objects and still get alot of focal width in the photo. There is incredible clarity in the lens. The photos I have taken are very clear with only a slight hint of softening at the corners at 10mm; everything else is sharp after that. There is a little barrel distortion at 10mm but everything else up to 22mm is nice.  I have not gotten any light flare in my photos.  The Ultrasonic motor is very quiet. The depth of field is outstanding. A slim UV filter helps prevent some slight vignetting at 10mm. With a maximum aperture that ranges from f/3.5 to f/4.5, the Canon EF-S 10-22mm f/3.5-4.5 USM Lens is a medium speed lens. I would recommend using a tripod if you are at all unsure about your ability to hold the camera still for action shots with this lens. The lens it's self is fairly light weight. If you are going to use filters the lens requires 77mm.The lens can produce some interesting distortion shots if you are taking close-ups and are not perpendicular to the object. For close-up shots with out distortion it is best to be perpendicular to the object.Inside the lens housing there are three aspherical lens elements and a Super UD element that produce clear vibrant shots. The lens it's self sturdily built and comfortable to handle.UPDATE 7/30/2011: I still love this lens. It functions every bit as well as it did the day I got it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The best lens I own", "unixReviewTime": 1112054400, "reviewTime": "03 29, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A16SRDVPBXN69C", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "M. ANNE", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "After spending a weekend shooting with this lens, I am sold.  The color and clarity are outstanding; I had a 17-40 and sold it for the 17-55 IS because with a crop camera it just wasn't  satisfactory.  Recently added this 10-22 to my bag and am very impressed with the quality of the photos .  In fact, impressed enough to buy a second copy for my partner so we can each have this when going in different directions.... .  If not an EF-S it would be an L for sure; it is well built, zoom is smooth and colors are vibrant.  When first using it, be careful you don't get your feet in the shot!  By the way, the hood for the 24-105 fits this lens so you really don't have to buy a separate one.Update:  I have owned this lens for quite awhile now and can only add that it is an outstanding lens, useful for many, many applications and the quality of photos ranks right up there with my best lens (I own several L lens).  It is not possible to recommend this one highly enough.  An outstanding addition to your camera and will give you a completely different perspective.  No matter what you have on your crop camera, this will add to your enjoyment.  It is also the only real wide angle for a crop camera.  Buy and enjoy.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Outstanding super-wide angle", "unixReviewTime": 1203465600, "reviewTime": "02 20, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A3H9S06RFG6FCZ", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "Matt Dotson \"Say something about yourself!\"", "helpful": [88, 111], "reviewText": "If you have a 1.6x cropped sensor, then this is really the only super wide angle lens canon makes.  The crop factor makes this equivalent to a 16-35mm lens on a full sensor.  The construction quality feels solid and well built.  That said, this is not an \"L\" lens.  I'm not an \"L\" snob ... I'll take a value where ever I can get it.  The sharpness on this lens is pretty good, but not razor sharp.  Even on a tripod, even at F/8 or F/11, even with MLU, it's acceptably sharp, but not amazingly sharp.  Even so, I love using this lens because the wide angle creates some great composures.  The other place this lens falls short is contrast.  Once again, acceptable but not amazing.  This is a good lens, but not a great one.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Not bad, but no other options", "unixReviewTime": 1158451200, "reviewTime": "09 17, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A9J4UURM4OSDW", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "Michael Sandman", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "The Canon 10-22mm zoom is made specifcally for Canon single lens reflexes with \"APS\"-size sensors -- the various iterations of the Digital Rebel and the 10D-20D-30D series.  It won't work on an SLR with a \"full-size\" sensor like the Canon 5D.Most SLRs come with a standard 17-55 or 17-85mm zoom that has a maximum field of view equal to a 28mm wide angle lens on a full-frame SLR.  On the cameras it fits, the 10-22mm lens give you the same field of view as a 16 - 35mm zoom on a normal 35mm SLR.  It's the wide end of things that brings a whole new world to photography.  With this lens you can capture the whole horizon in a landscape, get the whole room in an interior shot, and capture the full view of a street scene.  And if you get down low or up high, you can get some very dramatic views.  Just be careful the keep the camera level.  You can correct for those inevitable converging lines using Photoshop.There are less expensive alternatives to this lens, notably the Sigma 10-20mm, but the Canon's corner-to-corner resolution and almost negligible distortion and chromatic aberration make the Canon worth something extra.  (You may be able to pick up a Canon-refurbished lens from one of the large retailers from time to time, and that cuts the difference between the Sigma and the Canon in half, although you get a shorter warranty).Canon ought to include a lens shade, and you should consider buying one.  Although you don't need it to reduce flare, the hood does provide some protection for the front element of the lens if you don't use a filter.Assuming Canon continues to make SLRs with APS-size sensors, the lens will be around for a long time, and even if Canon switches to full frame sensors, you can use it as long as you have your existing Digital Rebel or 10-20-30D.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "This lens will change the way you look at the world", "unixReviewTime": 1167091200, "reviewTime": "12 26, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AEUW6VD9XCVWD", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "Michi", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I owned a super wide angle lens for my 35mm Canon's, and I really missed having a good wide angle to go with my Rebel XT.  I finally talked myself into spending a lot of money and bought this lens.  I can honestly say that I do not regret it.  This lens is amazing.  The quality is exceptional.  It is very sharp, and the lens is very sturdy.  I find myself using this as a standard lens very often.  Many of my favorite shots are taken at 10mm.  The wide angle this lens offers at 10mm really gives you a whole new perspective on how you can take pictures.  I would recommend this lens to anyone who wants to venture into the world of super wide angles.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "This is my favorite lens.", "unixReviewTime": 1141603200, "reviewTime": "03 6, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3OA4DV4L81N1D", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "P.K. Frary \"Gochugogi\"", "helpful": [16, 16], "reviewText": "The ultra wide zoom has been a mainstay of pros, especially photojournalists, since the early 1990s. Sweeping landscapes, operation in tight quarters and ease of hand holding are hallmarks of this range. The EF-s 10-22 3.5-4.5 USM is the first lens to bring this range to APS-C (1.6X crop) cameras like the 7D, 60D, 70D and Rebel.CONSTRUCTION: My initial impression was it's a little plasticy and zoom and focus rings are slightly coarse and stiff. After a year, it loosened up nicely but is still a notch below the smoothness of my EF-s 15-85 3.5-5.6 IS USM. However, it's light and petite: easy to slip in a coat pocket and ideal for travel or hiking. The metal mount and polycarbonate barrel make it durable yet lightweight. The front element moves slightly during operation so a UV filter is needed to seal the front from dust.AUTO FOCUS: Ring-type USM drives an internal lens group and, thus, AF blazes and is silent to human ears. The front element doesn't rotate during focus and zoom operations. It has FTM, allowing manual focus without switching out of AF mode. This AF design is optimized for stills and not ideal for video: the built-in mics on my 60D and 70D picked up a high pitched stutter from the motor and contrast focus is jerky during video recording. The workaround is to use an external mic and/or focus manually. If video is your main thing, buy theCanon EF-S 10-18mm f/4.5-5.6 IS STMinstead as the STM drive is stepless and silent to the camera mic.OPTICAL PERFORMANCE: Basically, this lens features optical quality of an L series wide zoom in a prosumer barrel. Wide open, this zoom is sharp and contrasty in the middle of the frame with slight softening towards edges. The wide side is the sharpest with slight degradation as you zoom towards 22mm. Sharpness across the frame improves as you stop down. By F8 it is pin sharp from edge to edge. I'm going for increased depth of field for landscapes and cityscapes, so I leave this lens at F8 most of the time. I only shoot wide open for occasional low light snaps.Distortion is well corrected. There is a wee bit of barreling at the wide end and slight pincushion ate the long end. But less distortion than my EF-s 15-85 3.5-5.6 IS USM and a little better than the 17-40 4L USM. Like any wide angle optic, you need to compose carefully to avoid perspective distortion, e.g., noses appearing too large or buildings falling over.Chromatic aberration is a reality with zooms and this one is not exempt, with magenta fringing along high contrast edges. e.g., tree branches against a bright sky. However, it is mild and easy to remove in DPP, LR or Aperture. In normal light you will never notice magenta fringing.Flare is well controlled for a zoom: no problems with sunsets or streetlights. Nevertheless, a lens hood is recommended for protection and to shade the front element from glare. Speaking of hoods...HOOD NOT INCLUDED: The recommended EW-83E hood is bulky and (looks like a dish) and costs $32. Worse of all, it's so shallow it offers little protection. I have an EW-83H that came with an EF 24-105 4L IS USM. The bayonet mount is the same size as the EW-83E but the hood is longer and narrower, offering increased protection. I thought the longer length might vignette but, amazingly, it doesn't vignette at any focal length, has better protection from glare and less bulk than the EW-83E. If you're going to spend money on an expensive hood for the 10-22 3.5-4.5, get the EW-83H instead of the EW-83E. If you're on tight budget, check out the Vello EW-83H clone/knockoff.LAST BLURB: This zoom is a specially lens and a bit wide for casual use. After all, 10mm covers 107 degrees! Nevertheless, I reach for this lens to shoot cityscapes, landscapes or in tight quarters. It has ideal coverage for spacious cathedrals or mammoth train stations. If you need an ultra wide zoom on APS-C, this is among the best in terms of image quality: sharp, fast to focus and easy on the shoulder.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Impressive IQ for a wide zoom", "unixReviewTime": 1367107200, "reviewTime": "04 28, 2013"}
{"reviewerID": "A3TXQIOHXRCDFC", "asin": "B0002Y5WXE", "reviewerName": "Riyad Kalla", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "A few years ago we went to Ireland (shooting with a Canon G9) and I was constantly frustrated by my inability to capture the *hugeness* of many indoor churches or outdoor castles to convey how immense a lot of what we were seeing was.Time and time again, at 24mm, it just wasn't wide enough for me to back into the corner of a building and capture the full scope of what we were seeing. I decided then and there that when I got a DSLR I was going to fix that issue.Fast forward a few years and I got a Canon 60D for Christmas. In preparation for a trip to Greece (picture added to sample images) I hummed and hawed about getting the 10-22 because I was worried, even on a crop-sensor, that it would be TOO wide.I was debating spending the $700 on this 10-22 lens or spending $1500 on theCanon EF 16-35mm f/2.8L II USM Ultra Wide Angle Zoom Lenslens. A friend had picked up the 16-35 and said it was excellent; a perfect walk-around lens and that he never had an issue with it \"not being wide enough\".Anyway, due to cost I decided to get the 10-22 and have to say that was the BEST decision I made for the Greece trip. There are an innumerable number of shots (1300 in total) that I took on that trip, capturing hillside towns, the Parthenon or ancient ruins that would have been impossible with anything narrower.At 10mm on a crop-sensor like the 60D, that gives me an effective 16mm focal point and time and time again I was *so happy* the lens would go that wide when shooting inside a church or ruined building.The slight bending of perspective at really wide angles was a *good* thing I though; I don't mind it, I think it's artistic and helps give a \"woooAAAA that is big\" impression to friends and family viewing our pictures and trying to understand just how huge these ruins were.Since getting back I actually ended up buying the Canon 16-35 f/2.8L II USM after all and have to say that it is \"wide enough\" for most every day use, but for Greece, I would take the 10-22 again over the 16-35 any day because those extra 6mm make a big difference.If you are like me and trying to shoot huge things and capture them all in-frame, get the 10-22 and know you have an awesome lens. If you are looking for the perfect walk-around lens, grab the 16-35 or just use the kit 18-135... that is actually a fantastic walk-around lens and won't send you to the poor house.Hope the comparison of the two most popular lenses helped, because I was humming and hawing so long about that choice that I was happy when I finally made it!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Must-have lens if you have ever been frustrated by cropped scenes", "unixReviewTime": 1302825600, "reviewTime": "04 15, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "AEPL5QZUY412N", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "Alex Moomaw", "helpful": [15, 21], "reviewText": "i have had so much fun with this lense and managed to take some pretty incredible pics.  i use this lense for probably 95% of pics.  i have 10-22mm, 28-300mm, and 100-400mm, all of which take great pics but this 17-85mm works great for general use.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "it's perfect", "unixReviewTime": 1155772800, "reviewTime": "08 17, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AU7C870VZCKV4", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer", "helpful": [63, 65], "reviewText": "After my initial disappointment with the kit lens that came on my Rebel Xt I first bought and fell in love with the 70-300 DO lens, which I have also reviewed.  That gave me a taste of what a decent Canon Lens can do.  It was not long before I bought the 17-85 IS lens and gave away the kit lens to make sure I would never see it again.Not only is this a quality lens -- much sharper than the 18-55mm -- but the IS feature will improve your low light pictures regardless of your ability (unless of course you always use a tripod).  You will find yourself taking shots (indoors especially) that were simply not possible with the kit lens.Because this lens will zoom to 85mm (equivalent to 136 mm on standard 35mm cameras) it makes a great carry anytime lens for many situations.  Of course, it is significantly heavier than the kit lens but the quality is well worth it.You should note that the picture that shows up on Amazon is a bit misleading.  The item pictured is certainly the correct lens but the picture is a bit squashed making it look much shorter than it really is.  The lens measures 4 inches when not extended.Finally, if buying this lens, do yourself a favor and, at the very least also buy a UV-filter.  Note that the filter size if 67mm which is bigger than the one on the kit lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Skip the kit lens buy this one instead", "unixReviewTime": 1169683200, "reviewTime": "01 25, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3UA33R5UOA8RC", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "Anand Muralidharan \"anandm78\"", "helpful": [152, 170], "reviewText": "I bought this lens to be used with my 20D.  The focal length range is quite impressive and can be very useful for DSLRs with an APS-C size sensor.However, the first thing I noticed is that there is extremely high vignetting/light fall off at 17mm. There is a dark circle surrounding the frame and is very visible when the edges of the frame have high luminosity.  If you snap on a UV filter or a polarizer, you can forget about taking pictures at 17-20mm.  That's a huge loss.Secondly, the picture is very soft up to f/8 or so.  My control over exposure time and the depth of field is minimal at this aperture.  Image Stabilizer works only at around 1/40 seconds or less.  During longer exposure times, pictures still show camera shake.Third, Canon, on it's website doesn't give MTF charts for this lens.  It's available for all other lenses including their cheap consumer zooms.  May be they figured this wasn't worth $600 and didn't want to publicize it.Bottomline: If you are point-and-shoot photographer that has a DSLR for kicks, then go ahead and get this lens.  It's one all-purpose lens for a 350D or a 20D.  But if you are serious about photography, avoid it.  I later bought a Tamron 28-75mm f/2.8 XR Di and a Tamron 17-35mm f2.8-4 XR Di.  Together it costed $800.  For the quality of their optics and the f2.8 constant max aperture, I happily gave up IS and USM. To top it, Tamron gave an $80 mail-in rebate and a standard 6 year warranty.I returned the lens to Amazon for a full refund, and I haven't had a more pleasant experience than their return process.  In the last 5 years that I've done business with Amazon, this was my first return.  They give you a UPS packing slip which you print out and stick to the package before handing it over to the UPS driver.  Within a week, the refund was processed.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Not Worth the price", "unixReviewTime": 1128297600, "reviewTime": "10 3, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A322LP94RDIKH5", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "ArtPhotoMusicNut", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I got this days before a trip to Europe. I had been using the Tamron 28-75 2.8 (a great lens too)on my XTI but thought I would need something wider in narrow streets. Before leaving, I took some side by side shots at the same length and aperture as the Tamron, and I'm hard pressed to see a difference, but I can get better DOF with the Tamron's 2.8 aperture. To save space, I left the Tamron at home and traveled with this and the 70-200 f4 L lens for distant castle shots.The wide range did indeed come in handy, although some distortion is unavoidable. I did not observe the vignetting effect noted by other reviewers.I was impressed with the IS because I took a fair number of available light interior shots with exposures as slow as 1/4 of a second that came out surprisingly well focused. This is my first IS lens. I had seen in other reviews that IS was not much help below 1/30 or so. Maybe I am really steady (NOT).The \"macro\" is not bugs-eye close, but useful for coin sized items. 4 stars rather than 5 because I think the lens is priced a little high, and the lens shade (which I don't have) is ridiculously priced for a piece of plastic.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Useful range, Image Stabilization better than I expected", "unixReviewTime": 1184112000, "reviewTime": "07 11, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1S3RVOC4N9OT4", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "A. STYLE", "helpful": [24, 26], "reviewText": "After a lot of research, I bought this lens for a hiking trip to Europe for my digital rebel. I didn't take any other lenses. I took a lot of landscape photos. I didn't need my tripod because of the IS. I did take a light monopod. The IS also meant I could use a small aperture for better quality and depth of field. The IS is not very good for action shots, so I turned it off and increased the ISO rating on my camera when I needed a faster shutter speed.The focusing was fast and accurate.I was very pleased with the lens. The images were sharp and clear. There is some barrel distortion at 17mm, but I corrected for it in Photoshop with PT Lens, which is an add-on filter. Very little chromic aberration.This is not an \"L\" lens, but that is not it's purpose. It's a great all-round lens for everyday shooting and travel. I highly recommend it for this use.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great travel all round lens", "unixReviewTime": 1123113600, "reviewTime": "08 4, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3S8HHQBEEGN7P", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "B. Gerber", "helpful": [37, 42], "reviewText": "I was disappointed with the lens.  Side-by-side comparisons of photos taken using the Canon 17-85mm and the Tamron 28-75mm 2.8 revealed that the Tamron is sharper and produces more contrasty images at 2.8 than the Canon at f5.6.  With both lenses at f8 the Tamron again wins the sharpness and contrast prize.  The photos were taken using the same Digital Rebel XT with all settings the same.  I will say that image stabilization on the Canon is superior to my other two Canon IS lenses (the 28-135mm and the pricey 100-400mm).  The Tamron, by the way, can be had for $370 right here at Amazon and there is currently a $40 rebate on that price.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Sharpness and Contrast are Weaknesses", "unixReviewTime": 1111449600, "reviewTime": "03 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A13AK85MVXUCSE", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "Boris", "helpful": [61, 67], "reviewText": "Earlier this year I bought Canon 20D body as an upgrade to my D-Rebel.After reading multiple positive reviews I blindly decided to go with EF-S 17-85mm lens which were in $600.00 price range at that time. Having a really high expectations for this lens, after a month or so I started to get feeling that somewhat I'm not satisfied with the picture quality of such expensive set. Pictures came out soft with so-so contrast. I noticed a lot vignetting and purple fringing. And let me tell you this is a slow lens, which makes it hard to use it indoors in low light conditions. Lots and lots of focus hunting on the zoom end, that was forcing me to switch to manual focus. But I continued shooting hoping to improve as I'm getting to know the camera better, but.... What a shock it was to me to discover that my old Canon EF 28-105 USM lens with no IS outperformed the one I used all this time. For test sake I also tried my kit lens for D-Rebel EF-S 18-55mm and was unpleasantly surprised that it produced brighter and sharper images under the same settings and light conditions. I could not believe it. $600 lens outperformed by cheap kit set. Right there I decided to get rid of it and by an L glass. Later on I read similar complains from other users about this lens that only strengthened my feeling about it. What a relief it was for me to find out that there is nothing wrong with camera itself. Now I'm able to produce much brighter, crispier, pictures using other Canon EF lenses and very happy with my camera up to date. One more thing. After about four five month I noticed a lot of dust particles inside the lens, even though I never used it in dusty environment. Paying such price one would expect better sealing protection.I think you better off to invest your money in some EF lenses which you can use later when APC-S CMOS will be gone as with new Canon 5D.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Not as good as expected.", "unixReviewTime": 1133913600, "reviewTime": "12 7, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3FA9RMVUGHSO8", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "C. Uyeda", "helpful": [64, 73], "reviewText": "I bought this lens for my Canon 30D after reading every professional review I could find.  I knew going in that this lens wasn't perfect but, was supposed to be better than the 18-55 kit lens.  I liked the range that it provided and the image stabilization.  I shot pictures with this lens and was extremely dissapointed.  The pictures were not sharp at all and the colors were dull.  I thought it might have been my new camera at first because I couldn't imagine the quality would be this bad.  I ruled this out after I used my Canon 28-105 lens I had for my Canon film SLR and the results were much better.  For the digital focal length though, my old lens wouldn't suffice because of the 1.6x focal factor.Later, I decided on the Tamron 17-50/2.8 after reading reviews.  The salesperson at the professional camera store guessed that my pictures were very soft when I told him I had this Canon lens.  He said, \"let me guess, you'd like to try the Tamron 17-50/2.8.\"  He said that this was the very best lens to buy in the price range and to take it home and try it. I could return it with no questions asked if I wasn't satisfied.  He also said that he hadn't had one person return it yet.My first images with this lens were great.  They were SHARP and had way more vibrant color.  There is absolutely no comparison at all.  I was hesitant to buy a third party lens but, my fears were instantly eliminated after seeing the results.  This is the first review I have ever posted on Amazon.  I was so dissapointed that I wanted to help others not make the same mistake.  After spending $$$ on a digital SLR, it would be a waste not to get great pictures with it because of the lens.  Before taking a chance on buying the Canon, do yourself a BIG favor and try the Canon and Tamron at a local store.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Not sharp at all.  Very dissapointed.  Do not make the same mistake.", "unixReviewTime": 1162598400, "reviewTime": "11 4, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1KMA4IW87NMNT", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "Cypress Texas", "helpful": [34, 35], "reviewText": "I got this lens to replace the kit lens that came with my Canon EOS 30D.  This lens is definitely a more \"substantial \" lens than the kit lens.  Even though the outer housing is plastic, it has a metal mount and seems very durable and sturdy.  The IS really helps to improve the image quality induced by my unsteady hand.  The USM is very fast and quiet.  I have read accounts of this lens not being able to lock on, but I have not had any issues with it in varying (including low) lighting conditions.  I know the lens supports FTM focus, but I have not tried it yet.  I like the focal length range on this lens.  At 17mm even with the 1.6x multiplier, the angle is very wide.  The only drawback to this lens for me is at 17mm there is significant barrel distortion.  My test shots my next shot was at 24mm and the distortion was completely gone at this focal  length.  It's not a showstopper though since it is easily corrected in Photoshop.  Of all the lenses I plan to get, (Sigma 30mm 1.4, Canon EF 50mm 1.8 II, and the Canon EF 70-300mm IS USM), this will most likely be the lens I keep on the camera most of the time, using the others as opportunities warrant.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Very good lens but has some barrel distortion at 17mm", "unixReviewTime": 1147219200, "reviewTime": "05 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1UH0QPQNO6V8I", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "deepclue \"DC\"", "helpful": [162, 180], "reviewText": "I bought this lens with a EOS 20D. The lens is reasonably sized, and the pictures looks sharp and overall very nice. However, the maximum aperture of this lens is 4.0, and in fact beyond 50mm (80mm equivalent) it goes down to 5.6. The IS works great and compensates for this fact iin low-light conditions quite well, but it can't give you the depth of field of larger apertures. I ended up buying a 50mm 1.4 (about $300) and boy is that a nice, sharp, fast lens. You can't go wrong by buying both.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Sharp but slow", "unixReviewTime": 1098316800, "reviewTime": "10 21, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A3ATORX9LJWRUM", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "D. Kim \"bummster\"", "helpful": [44, 48], "reviewText": "This is a lens of compromises.  It is an attempt by canon to make a light weight, low light capable, versatile range, ergonomically friendly lens.  The lens the educated amateur photographer should buy.  This would never be the only lens a Pro would use.  A Pro would use the lens that is required.  This lens instead tries to be all things to everyone.  I.E., the perfect walk about lens for people that require a 28-135 range.For the vast majority of hobbyists, this will become a workhorse lens.It has a lot of features packed into it to achieve its goal.  IS, Ring USM, Full Time manual focusing, non rotating front element, round aperture, internal focusing, and Macro abilities.  With all these things packed into it, it is a jack of all trades, and a master of nothing.Now, if you were to go buy individual lenses that are far better at individual tasks, you'd spend a lot more money with diminishing returns.One nice thing canon did, was make this lens with a 67mm front element thread.  Meaning, when you the educated amateur photographer go looking for that zoom telephoto, the first thing you should look at, is the canon 70-200 F4L.  it too has a 67mm thread.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "the best compromise lens", "unixReviewTime": 1117152000, "reviewTime": "05 27, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3UC29EJF2ZQP5", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "Duckman", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "There are three ways to evaluate the worth and value of a lens:  Reviews that provide you measured numbers, Reviews that give you someone's opinion, and using it yourself.I suppose all have some merit. Numbers are facts. If there is measurable falloff in the corners or low numerical resolution at a particular part of the zoom range such reviews will show it. People's opinions can have merit too - but first you kind of need a review of the reviewer. Do they know their stuff? Are their needs and expectations similar to your own? Have they used it enough to really know the Len's strengths and weaknesses?The final one -- using it yourself is in the end the best. This because numbers say little about pictures. No, really, they don't.  Doubt that? Then look at the great photos taken when even the best lenses lacked the basic qualities demanded of the least expensive SLR lenses today.  Do you say \"gee, great pic but the lens sucks\"?  No.  And some people who write a review have special needs that will have little impact on YOU.  An architectural photographer for instance.  Even a little curvature in a straight line will drive him crazy. But on your vacation photos of the mountains or the beaches you won't even notice that flaw.Fall off (\"vignetting\") can be a big deal if its bad. But most falloff from a modern DSLR lenses can be corrected almost 100% with basic software. (And the same is true for linear distortion btw.)So the best way to check out a lens is to use it yourself.All of these points came to me (again) when I purchased this EF-S 17 -85mm lens. Measurable fall off? At some zoom settings its got gobs. Distortion?  At wide setting ditto. Resolution?  Good to middling. But for all that this lens for many photographers -- including serious ones -- would be a great addition to their kit.BYW, I probably would be judged in that later, \"serious\", category myself. I've earned a good living as a photographer for over 40 years. My work has graced hundreds of articles, books, and more recently, web sites. And my \"art\" images have been displayed in a 'one man show' in an art-conscious community.OK then, what does my use tell me about this lens?Pluses:1) It has a really useful zoom range that encompasses a wide range of shots.2) It is light and relatively compact.3) Its resolution may not look great when presented in numbers, but it does look great in the photos I've taken with it.4) When quick processed with appropriate editing software (I use Lightroom) the falloff and linear distortion is approximately zero.5) Being discontinued and replaced by a measurably better but MUCH more expensive lens in Canon's catalog one can be be gotten for a song and maybe, with some luck, just a half stanza.  (I got one recently in like new condition -- box, caps and all -- for less than $350.Minuses:1) Very limited macro capability2) Some reported mechanical problems.Regarding the positives: Yes! A Steal! Go for it!Regarding the negatives: It is a daily use lens that for many photographers will see 3 or 4 (or more) time on their camera than a more extreme type of lens. Thus problems will on that basis alone be more common. And any problem is more likely to be mentioned in a review than none just because that is human nature.  (Which of your feet are you most likely to mention in a conversation, the one that hurts or the one that doesn't?)Bottom line: Find one cheap. Buy it. Use it. Enjoy! And for that price if it does break have it fixed.That's what I did and it works for me. :)", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Get a Good One Used and You'll Have a Really Fine Walkaround Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1314057600, "reviewTime": "08 23, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A184ZNI4K5ZSHY", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "Frank Shoemaker \"Frank\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "This is one great lens.  I had used the 18-55 lens before, and wanted a little extra lens.  This lens provided everything I wanted.  The extra length was a great enhancement, and the IS is totally incredible.  This is one versatile lens, and may be the last lens you ever buy,unless you need a true telephoto!After buying a Canon 30D (without lens) I debated on the standard zoom lens, but am more than thrilled that I went with this one.  Extra length and the IS give you the best of both worlds.  Great lens!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Awesome Lens!", "unixReviewTime": 1188345600, "reviewTime": "08 29, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2BN67MBQQ23G1", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "FredM", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "I got this lens with my 30D and have found it to be a useful walkaround lens, able to handle just about any situation I threw at it, other than very low-light situations.  Even in dim illumination it was able to function fairly well, thanks to the image stabilization, which let me shoot at shutter speeds as slow as 1/4 second hand-held.  I wasn't thrilled with the barrel distortion at the wide end of the zoom range, but I was able to fix this using Photoshop's Lens Correction adjustment with no problem.  It's simply an additional post processing step that's necessary.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Best affordable walk-around lens", "unixReviewTime": 1154995200, "reviewTime": "08 8, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2UQK3DAZ8NO2T", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "Hiram Grant \"just call me Sam\"", "helpful": [12, 13], "reviewText": "This lens is very versatile, offering good wide angle to a good head-and-shoulders portrait length.  It's internal focusing, which helps with speed and close-focusing performance, and has image stabilizer for better low-light performance.The IS can be of a particular benefit to those that shoot in darker open areas, like wedding photographers in churches.  The IS, combined with a flash, can allow use to get more background detail for indoor events.  No longer do we have to accept dark, dungeon like backgrounds!Ideally, the lens would be a little bit brighter (say, f4 at the top end), and a bit heavier built.  But then again, we could have that for $1,000 more!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Very good lens for the wedding photographer", "unixReviewTime": 1150848000, "reviewTime": "06 21, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3KB7BREV3FH3X", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "Howard C. Batt", "helpful": [18, 18], "reviewText": "I wrote my review a little more than a year ago.  As I said then, others had had my problem with the lens and I thought it was fixed.  the lens now will not autofocus.  It hunts back and forth for several seconds and then stops.  Depress the shutter button and sometimes a picture (out of focus) is taken.  More often the \"err code 99) appears in the viewfinder and the camera must be shut off and turned back on.  With manual focus, the result is the same error code and the camera shuts down.ALL of my lenses are Canon and I have no problem with the others.  So, I have finally bitten the bullet and ordered the L series 24-70 lens.  I still believe Canon makes the best lenses but I think this lens is poorly made.  To see more of what I mean, visit the BH Photo Video site, look up this lens and look at the reviews.  I want and need a lens in this range and should have bought the L series at the beginning.  But I'm not going to pay Canon to fix it again.Here's my original review:It IS a good lens.  But, for the price, it ought to be.  It is my \"walking around\" lens and I've been very happy with the images it makes for the two years I've owned it.  However, I now find that I am not alone in the problem I've had.  The zoom mechanism apparently is a complicated combination of worm gear and ball bearings.  My first indication of a problem was when the zoom locked in the 17 mm position - it would not move.  However, the problem was partly solved by rotating the camera upside down - the zoom then worked perfectly and, so long as I did not run it all the way back to 17mm it was fine.  Just as suddenly, that problem disappeared for six months. Then it came back temporarily - not as bad but it was a problem and I could not use the lens freely.  But - once again it disappeared and I thought all was well.  Three weeks ago the lens locked up and it didn't matter what I did - it would not unlock.  I went to a couple of forum sites and found others had the same problem with the lens.  The end result?  I sent the lens to Canon for repair and got the good news today - it will take a week and will cost about a quarter of the cost of buying a new lens.  The warranty is one year.I agree with the other reviewer who said try the Tamron or other manufacturers.  I have no complaint with picture quality and the lens is fast enough for my purposes.  But I am very disappointed that a mechanical fault like this is possible after only two years with what I consider an expensive lens.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Not so good - update", "unixReviewTime": 1165968000, "reviewTime": "12 13, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1B0LNUCV2U75C", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "jabdigital", "helpful": [17, 23], "reviewText": "Had this lens for almost 2 weeks. Taken many shots with it, and have had no complaints. The digital camera reviewers love it, and I'd take their opinion over someone who has 10,000 dollars worth of lenses. People are always picky! It's also a 5X zoom lens too, get's you right into the action.Not too heavy, pretty quick, great images. You can't go wrong!!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great lens. If you're a semi-newbie, get it.", "unixReviewTime": 1112918400, "reviewTime": "04 8, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2CF5XQ94ECGMU", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "jamescroak", "helpful": [65, 88], "reviewText": "I am a Canon fan, their products in general are superior to others, however this lens is not up to the mark:  it is undoubtedly the slowest lens on the market,  at 17mm it is an F4 and by the time one tunes for 50mm it is an F5.6, making it a stretch to use it in daylight without a tripod.  Canon's mammoth 1200mm is an F5.6 and the average 50mm is an F 1.4, so for what purpose is there a 50mm that always thinks its dark outside?  The 5x zoom is useful having a wider zoom range than most any lens available, however the trade off is a very dark and slow lens, Canon then compensates by sticking the marginally useful image stabilizer on it because one is always shooting at 1/20 due to this inferior design.  (Canon's pricey 24-70mm is an F2.8 for example, twice as fast.)  Its focus in general is poor, never sharp and always a long focal field, forget the portrait with the blurred background, its not going to happen at F5.6.  It has some use as a light weight walking around lens for shooting small shots at a high ISO for newspapers or such, but not a pro lens, not by a mile, barely an acceptable consumer lens.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Light weight 5x zoom, with below average results", "unixReviewTime": 1105488000, "reviewTime": "01 12, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2VOS5RONUOIVK", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "J. Chen \"weez\"", "helpful": [39, 43], "reviewText": "This lens is of decent optical quality and should satisfy most amature photographer who has more concern about sharpness and constrast in their photos than the normal kit lens on low end DSLRs could provide, however this is not a very versatile lens for two major reasons:1. Maximum Aperture of only f/4-5.6: this severely limits the DOF aspect of the lens and also generates the side effect of forcing longer shutter speeds, although the slower shutter speed can be partially remedied by the IS option on the lens the DOF limitation can not be avoided.  Not able to open up the aperture will limit creativity possibilities with this lens.2. This is a EF-S lens that is designed for a 1.5 to 1.6 cropped sub-35mm frame sensor which means it can only be used with Canon EF-S mount cameras (Rebel, 20D).  This limits the upgrade path in camera body.  This lens have to be scrapped once the photographer upgrades to anything larger than the 1.5x crop factor camera bodies (such as Canon 1D, 1Ds line or the 5D, and most likely more and more new DSLR from Canon will probably go the full frame route) and it can not be used with a film Canon SLR camera.For the price that this lens demands and the limitation provided above, it is a very tough decision to buy this lens.  While it does indeed provide good walk around zoom range and OK optical quality, more descriminating photographers should definitely look at third party full EF mount lens that offer superior optical performance without the above mentioned limitations at lower prices (such as the Tamron 28-74mm F/2.8 EF mount lens), for they're much better long term investments than this lens.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Good but definitely is very limiting", "unixReviewTime": 1136851200, "reviewTime": "01 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A32TSY95CFGCL2", "asin": "B0002Y5WXO", "reviewerName": "Jeff \"jack of many trades\"", "helpful": [103, 104], "reviewText": "From a pure image quality standpoint, this lens will not please the pixel peepers.  On the wide end of the zoom, which I personally use more often than the telephoto end, this lens is not very sharp, and it suffers from fairly bad distortion.  Worse than that, for me, are the chromatic abberations; this lens is quite prone to significant CA when shot at the wide end, which can look a lot worse than a little bit of distortion or softness.  Given the price of this lens, one should expect a higher level of optical performance.The maximum aperture of this lens is not very large, being f/4 on the wide end, and f/5.6 on the telephoto end.  The image stabilization makes up for this some, as you can comfortably shoot at much slower shutter speeds than otherwise, but, let's be honest here; this lens is a poor performer if you want to shoot in low light with no tripod.  The small aperture makes for a dark viewfinder, which can be a very big problem if you are trying to compose a picture in the dark (using a tripod).Yet, I still gave this very imperfect lens four stars, and this is not without reason.First of all, the focal length range is quite handy.  It isn't a mega-zoom that does everything, however, it covers the most often used focal length ranges, and is an appropriate lens to use for the vast majority of situations.  The little bit of extra zoom on the telephoto end is handy on occasion, and it's also worth noting that the lens sharpens up quite a bit when you zoom in some - it might be soft on the wide end, but zoomed in, it's quite good.I have printed as large as 20x30\" using this lens on a Digital Rebel, and have no qualms with the results.  Yes, there are sharper lenses out there, but you are a lot more likely to see the difference in sharpness on your computer monitor than in a print.This lens has ring USM, which enables it to focus very quietly, and very quickly, whereas the slightly cheaper (and F2.8) options from the 3rd parties have normal focusing motors that are slow and noisy by comparison.If you want to use this lens indoors, you are best off getting a flash to go with it, such as a 430EX.  The lens is usable in fantastic indoor lighting, or during the day, but won't give you good results in low light with no flash.If you will be shooting in lower light situations (people in particular), Tamron and Sigma have some good options in the 17-50mm range with F2.8 apertures, and I would recommend those lenses over this one.  If you'd prefer the extra telephoto range, the image stabilization so you can shoot with smaller aperture in poorer lighting situations for greater depth of field (instead of needing to shoot a landscape at f/4, for instance, without image stabilization, you could use f/11 on this lens, and get a sharp picture with better depth of field.  This is even more useful in the close focus range - while this isn't a true macro lens, if you take closeup photos without a tripod, you will want to stop the lens down for greater depth of field, and the IS helps with that quite a bit.Overall, I've been fairly pleased with the performance of this lens.  If you like to worry about splitting hairs, and zooming all the way in on pictures on your computer, this lens is likely to dissapoint you.  If, however, you are willing to sacrifice optical perfection to get a very well rounded, useful lens, then I'd recommend it, however, would also recommend that you consider the 3rd party options, as they are also great lenses, and do offer a somewhat better value.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Good, but not great, all around lens.", "unixReviewTime": 1159315200, "reviewTime": "09 27, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2WDCDU02FC2T3", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "AM \"am amazon\"", "helpful": [20, 21], "reviewText": "The C330 is exactly what the doctor ordered for the GPS market. Its the iPOD of GPS's !The reviews here are accurate and I dont have much else to add other than its absolute completeness as a basic Auto GPS. You dont need a manual to operate this. The C340 might be an appropriate choise for the spoken street names but the C330 is sufficient.Now for Garmin support -  I have to say the phone support is outstanding (the e-mail support is usually canned and slow). I had a problem with the unit a day before I was supposed to leave on a trip. Garmin (actually Keith from Garmin) not only sent me a new unit - but sent it directly by overnight shipping to the place I was going to next day. I used the GPS all throught the trip and I cant thank Garmin (especially Keith) enough.I've been an owner of a Garmin eTrex for several years and am glad I bought Garmin again.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Very Good Auto GPS and Great Garmin Support", "unixReviewTime": 1146700800, "reviewTime": "05 4, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3KLBNV2EG9X4U", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "A mom of twins", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "it has all what we wanted.we had another one before but it wasn't accurate at all.this one :-  shows the names of the streets arround us in details & it shows our way high lighted in red with every slight twist & turn.- it has stored data about most of the places that we would like to go.(it shows the address & the phone of whatever we search for on it).- untill now we found all the restaurants & stores that we searched for on it even small & not famous ones.- clear & obvious screen.- very easy to use.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "i'm in love with it", "unixReviewTime": 1166572800, "reviewTime": "12 20, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A21OBYW0N5ENS7", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "Bassocantor \"\u001a OracleMagician\"", "helpful": [29, 31], "reviewText": "I had never used a gps before trying this product.  I borrowed one of these recently for a trip to \"the OC.\"  The Garmin saved me a lot of time, pointing out routes that I was unaware of, and helping me avoid getting lost (which I usually do!).  It's very easy to use--you will get the hang of it very quickly.A nice feature was the list of attractions, such as airports or parking facilities or restaurants.  All well done and easy to follow.It's hard to think of any real flaws; I suppose a slight improvement would be to have the street names announced, rather than \"Turn right in 500 feet,\" etc.To my surprise, I was able to pack this in my carry-on luggage. There was no problem at the airport security point.Great product, esp for the reasonable price.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Near Perfect & Easy to use", "unixReviewTime": 1164585600, "reviewTime": "11 27, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1ET0GTEDD8AW", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "Bryan", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "FIELD TEST:When you turn this device on it instantly tells you of your current location, sets the time of day and time zone and can instantly tell you where the closest Dairy Queen or McDonald's is. A fitting start to a device that will continue to impress you throughout its life.I have used my Garmin c330 StreetPilot for about a month now and I have found a few restaurants that aren't listed in its database and a few streets that don't run on the built-in maps like they do in real life. Chalk some of that up to construction, I guess. But for the most part, the road test in my home city in West Texas is expertly outlined with very few flaws. That means when I tell it to find the fastest way to the mall, it will. When I type in the address of my friend's house it will guide me right to the door and even tell me which side of the street it will be on. Wow!On a recent road trip I took this baby along for the almost 1,000 miles traveled in a weekend. When we were craving food, it would tell us which restaurants to expect in the upcoming towns. It even provides estimated times of arrival which were always accurate withing 30 minutes on trips that took six or seven hours.WHO IT'S FORI would highly recommend this device for anyone who is driving around a lot in a city they're not quite familiar with or someone who travels to unknown areas at least once every two months. It will save your road trip several times.It's for anyone who (like me) has ever turned the completely wrong way out of parking lot on the way home in a city I've lived in for years. If your sense of direction needs a supplement, buy this device.However, if you live in the same small town you've been in for years and don't travel at least bi-monthly, you don't need this. Maps would be a cheaper (but not always easier) way for you.PROS:- Detailed mapping, impressive route recalculation- Very easy to use (if you can use a digital wristwatch, you can use this product)- Customizable for more hardcore users- (This is cool!) Automatically switches to \"night mode\" after sunset -- it knows when sunset is for wherever you are. This makes it easier to see the information in the dark.- Has a very accurate database of food, fuel, hotels and many more points of interest -- very useful for going to small towns where you don't want to drive around for hours.- Changeable languages. You can change the voice directions to French, Norweigen or several others. It even has a woman with an American English voice and a different one with a British English voice. The British woman is much less annoying and much more soothing.CONS:- Tells you of upcoming turns three or four times (can be annoying at times, but the volume is adjustable)SUMMARY:Buy this device -- you will not be disappointed. When a friend or co-worker rides somewhere with you and sees it, they will be very jealous. A personal anecdote, my dad advised me not to buy this product. He quickly went back on that opinion when he rode around with me. It's a see-it-to-believe it product, but believe me -- it's worth it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "4.9 stars = Very impressive device with a few minor flaws.", "unixReviewTime": 1127865600, "reviewTime": "09 28, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1TKC3QS6WXIHE", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "Charles E. Phillips \"crszman\"", "helpful": [19, 19], "reviewText": "I purchased this unit back in May and programmed in the address to a house rented at Polly's Island, SC. With no other maps, the unit took our car right to the driveway. I have traveled all over the SE for nearly 30 years and like most guys suffer from the \"MOSES CURSE\" - never stopping to ask for directions.  This has wasted more gas than I want to imagine over the years. Whenever I need to call on a new customer, the first thing I ask is the exact address.  I program it into the unit and it takes me to the right location every time.  I have mine programmed with an ENGLISH voice which reminds me of our trip to England.  I would recommend this unit to anyone who travels.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Finally A Way to Help Save GAS!!!", "unixReviewTime": 1163116800, "reviewTime": "11 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2DB5O6AXINIME", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "D. Phillips \"DAVEinTN\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "Not if you own this little gem. We were shopping for a used car, there was one at a good price in Atlanta, we rented a car and the cashier asked if we wanted to rent a GPS, I almost said no, but not really knowing Atlanta all that well I said yes, the GPS astounded me, precise directions from door to door, and I even made a wrong turn and the GPS got me back on course, unbelieveable! I went home that night and ordered this little GPS, I found a car that we wanted, it was in Miami, almost 800 miles away, my GPS arrived the day before we were to drive down to get the car, piece of mind, knowing that my journey was now trouble free.After dropping off the rental car at the airport we took a taxi to pick up the car, the taxi driver had no clue where the address was, I asked him to pull over, went in my suitcase and got my GPS out, within a minute we were going in the right direction, the taxi driver was so amazed that he asked where I got it and how much it was. If you drive. you should have one of these units. And the perks don't stop at the navigation aspect, it can find you the nearest food, gas, entertainment and it also has the greatest trip meter with more information than you could ever need, there is so much too the C330, I have only had it a week and I'm still finding good stuff. I highly reccomend this GPS.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "GET LOST !", "unixReviewTime": 1177804800, "reviewTime": "04 29, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AX9FBF2XGFBWB", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "G. Kumar \"Kumar\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I bought this product a month back from Amazon. Garmin C330 is a good value for money GPS with overall good navigation.Following are some pros and cons, I came across while using it:Pros:1. Able to acquire satelites within first few seconds2. Nice stand which is easy to affix to the windshield3. Good database of locationsCons:1. There are two modes available for any location, \"shorter time\" and \"shorter distance\", I think it, sometimes it takes unnecessary turns even for a location which can be reached straight forward. There should be a choice, where it should say minimum twists and turns.2. One more feature, which I find lacking is to directly change this mode, by using a single click from \"shorter time\" to \"shorter distance\". I personally find, \"shorter distance\" to be better in local area, but when you are traveling a little far, \"shorter time\" is better. But because, to change the setting, we have to go through, Settings->Navigation->Shorter Time, it becomes a hassle especially when you are driving.Overall, I think its a great product. Some people say, it does not tell them the name of the streets before turning, but I think, I personally never found any problem in locating the turns, its just a matter of getting used to the style of Garmin.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Value for money", "unixReviewTime": 1189728000, "reviewTime": "09 14, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3I9VSSDDPG477", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "Han40some", "helpful": [720, 731], "reviewText": "UPDATE:Below is my review which a lot of people found useful. So, i want to write this udpate. Now, get the C340 & not the C330. the biggest difference is C340 spells street name out like turn left on main st, take 95S etc.  It MAKES A BIG DIFF FOR ANOTHER $50 !!!AND GET THIS MOUNT, IT IS FANTASTIC:Garmin Dashboard Mount for StreetPilot c320, c330 and c340===============================================================I have used Navman ICN 630, Megallen RM 700 & finally this one.I can tell you this is the best & most of all easiest.  This is why this unit is the best:1. No downloading of Maps2. Has most udpated Maps compared to other brands3. Has 5 million points of interest compared to others4. Touchscreen5. Easiest of all to use.  Easier than the Acura GPS i have used.6. Very small but with most usable screen view.  It doesn't take a lot of winshield space, doesn;t block visibility.  Though screen is small, letters are SO BIG & EASY TO READ.7. Very fast software8. Very easy to carry while traveling.9. Excellent windshield mount. Very stable10. It comes on when Car is turned on.11. It has rechargeable battery which lasts for about 3 hrs i think.12. Loud/clear voice.13. Very intuitive operating system.14. Fixes the GPS signal instantly. Navman used to take longer.15. This is interesting. You can remove the unti without unplugging the car DC cord.  DC cord is connected to mount always.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Undoubtedly the best Car GPS in today's market !", "unixReviewTime": 1115251200, "reviewTime": "05 5, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1NZNSVSOWMJ0U", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "J. G. Gillette", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "After reading several reviews on several sites, I bought the c330 for my wife. She's the type that learns how to get from place to place in patterns. If she gets off the path she knows, she's instantly lost and calls me to try to direct her home. It's difficult because, well, she's lost and has no idea where she is. I bought it for her for safety and convenience. When researching this unit I read mainly reviews made by women to see how they liked it. One point that came up over and over was the unit's simplicity. Several reviewers said that they could use it right from the box without even touching the manual. I found this to be true as well.We've had this unit for about a month and a half now and in my wife's eyes it's gone from being an other gadget for me to play with to an indispensable tool for navigatoin. She uses it everywhere she goes.We've made two trips to Tennessee and driven locally (Orlando) so far. The c330 has not let us down yet.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great all in one GPS.", "unixReviewTime": 1149379200, "reviewTime": "06 4, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2D3L1CASEZFSB", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "Joseph W. Maluso \"Megadeth_VA\"", "helpful": [51, 52], "reviewText": "I replaced a TomTom One with this device.  It is so much better IMO.  Bigger / nicer touchscreen and its maps are much more accurate.  The menu system s very intuitive and really does work right out of the box.  Within 15 minutes I was up and running.  Setup my home location right away and added all of the places I will visit when I travel out of town this weekend to my favorites list (BTW the TomTom One couldn't find half of them.) It is great to have all the maps loaded for you already and not have to worry about it.  It is larger than the TomTom One but it doesn't matter.  Using the windshield mount I placed it right next to the rear-view mirror out of my direct line of sight.  It works very well in this position for me.  The accessible volume button is very useful as well.  You can remove the power cord if you don't want wires hanging in the car all the time if the unit has been charged.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Awesome GPS unit!!!", "unixReviewTime": 1164758400, "reviewTime": "11 29, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A37KNOJXE2FU6", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "Joseph Yonke II", "helpful": [21, 21], "reviewText": "May sound a bit over the top BUT I can find no better way of describing this unit.Purchased it the day before going on a thousand mile journey. Couldn't get over the fact that no matter where you are, it knows where EVERYTHING is. Shopping, food, accommodations, fuel, etc. You can't get lost. You can find what you're looking for no matter. OK, maybe not the EXACT business address in a one-horse town, it will, however, get you real close! The rest you can figure. Wonderful investment. So EASY to use. ALMOST idiot proof.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Almost unbelievable", "unixReviewTime": 1132790400, "reviewTime": "11 24, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2FTR68POF9BD5", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "Kru \"The Unflattered\"", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "I bought two of the Garmin c330's for my boss. He asked me to look into a GPS for the frequent business trips and deliveries we have to make. After reading the reviews, I chose the c330 for him, and then borrowed it for a few days to go house-hunting upstate with my wife. We never worried about where we were at ANY time during the whole trip. Can't really think of a better recommendation than that!Anyway, I decided to invest in my own GPS, but I am notorious for always diverging from the tried-and-true. My impulse sends me toward a thing that holds the promise of new, unexplored functionality. I went with a \"TomTom ONE\" for roughly the same price. WHOOPS!!!The TomTom had some extra bells and whistles, but the POI listings were HORRIBLY outdated, and they were organized in a completely counter-intuitive fashion. No ability to look at restaurant categories means that you simply have to scroll down until you see what looks like it might suit you. Then, there's no location info on those listings!! You need to start navigation to that spot, then double-back to check the map for the address!! Terrible. The c330 rolls with an address and phone # for each place, along with a category for the style of cuisine. NICE.The Garmin has nicer map colors, better speakers, better battery life and more reliable mapping. It lost satellite reception ONLY when I went under tunnels, but so did the TomTom. The Garmin seemed to recover better, though.TomTom ONE is in the mail for return, and I ordered the c330 for a replacement. Oh, Lord!!! Why did I stray!?!?My boss is thrilled, because this confirms that I made the best initial choice when I bought the Garmin for him.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Tried the TomTom, goin' w/ the Garmin.", "unixReviewTime": 1176940800, "reviewTime": "04 19, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A11T807LX2EF00", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "Michael", "helpful": [28, 29], "reviewText": "I bought a TomTom Go last October.  It replaced a Garmin StreetPilot III.  While the TomTom was a lot easier to use and great, it was limited by out-of-date maps (roads, bridges and exits 5 years old were not in the database).  When it worked it worked great.When Garmin introduced the c330, it was stikingly familiar to the TomTom product.  In using it extensively in the last few weeks, I have concluded that it is superior.  It is just as easy to use.  And I love the trip information screen that is lacking in the TomTom.  The maps are great.The TomTom does have a number of features that are missing in the c330.  You can set your present location with one touch as a favorite.  You get your next turn displayed on the screen at all times (which is lacking on the c330, though you can touch the screen and see and hear it).  You can do a detour with various options and then if not acceptable return to your original route.The c330 is smaller than the TomTom.  It is also easier to attach to the windshield mount than the TomTom.  The windshild mount itself is easy to attach and remove from the windshield, unlike the TomTom.  The display was not overly affected by direct sunlight, and can be set automatically to adjust to night time driving mode.  Though I like the dc cable being part of the mount, I would have preferred one that was not permanenty attached to the mount so I could use it without the windshield mount.  Though for short trips the battery life is more than adequate.Though I have not used Garmin's customer service to compare, I found TomTom support slow and not responsive in answering what I had asked.I also recommend buying the Covertec screen protector that they make for the TomTom Go.  With a few minor cuts at two corners with a scissors it will fit very nicely on the c330.  It feels smooth to the touch and protects the screen well.  I bought mine from MobilePlanet.com.All in all, I highly recommend the c330.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Much better than my TomTom Go...", "unixReviewTime": 1118793600, "reviewTime": "06 15, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3HGKLYTBE4QX0", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "Michael Valdes", "helpful": [12, 13], "reviewText": "It works great right out of the box. The interface is very intuitive and it's already steered me seamlessly around several closed/flooded/backed up roads. In areas I know well, it doesn't always choose the route I think is better at a particular time of day, but it will get you to your destination. (Actually, once it gave me a better route than the one I'd used for years.) Its only deficency, if you want to call it that, is that you don't get much of a choice of routes. It also doesn't easily mark waypoints but neither of these would keep me from recommending it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Didn't think I'd use it - wrong again", "unixReviewTime": 1130284800, "reviewTime": "10 26, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AI64A73L6EHP3", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "Mr. GPS", "helpful": [23, 23], "reviewText": "Hands down the best value for the money. Easy to use, very small, internal battery, and preloaded maps. A monkey can use this out of the box. Be very wary of some of the reviews on Amazon regarding GPS. Many may be by people who have a vested interest either because they work for a competitor or because they invested in or shorted the stock of the companies making these units. GPS navigation is really starting to catch on in this country and the economic stakes for the companies involved are large. These are multibillion dollar companies trying to compete in a market that is just starting, the market for portable navigation devices.Garmin makes the very best consumer GPS units in the world. They are the only GPS company that makes FAA certified integrated instrument pannels for airplanes. Do you really think they are putting out products that don't work? Garmin also has the best support I've ever experienced from any tech firm. I also own a Garmin PDA which broke and they replaced it for free outside of warrenty.This is the GPS unit that will bring GPS to the masses.  This is the first product that is easy enough for everyone to learn to use within 5 minutes.  The C series does not have all of the functions and features of the 26xx series, it doesn't show individual sat. data or lat or long, route sorting, but most of these features add little value and make the OS interface more complicated.  This is a pure GPS auto navigation unit.  For more tech savy buyers the 2600 series or iQue is a better choice.Compared to the Magellan Roadmate series, there is no comparision.  The Garmin unit is less expensive and better on every dimension.  Much smaller and lighter but with the same size screen as the 700.  Touch screen and internal battery.  Much better mounting system.  It really works well.  And a much larger POI database 5 million versus 2 million I think.  Most importantly, the Garmin is MUCH easier to use.  No one who tested both would buy the Magellan, unless they were French.The unit is so small and light it really is a marvel of engineering.  For the average Joe or Jane, this is the perfect GPS.Garmin is a great company and supports its products very well.  They provide free updates of the firmware for all their products and their customer service is first rate.  You won't be sorry if you buy this one.People who complain about the outdated maps should realize that there is a 1 or 2 year lag in adding new streets and POIs and no GPS has fully updated maps.  If you live in an area with a lot of new construction, this can be very frustrating.  Garmin provides map updates every two years or so (they are on version 6 now) for $75.  It is a lot easier and less expensive to update a Garmin handheld than a built in car nav system.  Some of Garmin competitors use maps by a different company that are very poor in comparision.  Garmin uses the best mapping data available from navteq and develops its almost 6 million POI database themselves.If you have any question about the C330, check one out in person at your local electronics shop.  You won't believe the size and ease of use.  Compare it to anything else out there and you will be buying the C330.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Catagory Killer Product", "unixReviewTime": 1121126400, "reviewTime": "07 12, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A170GY15JIVYNL", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "N. Joseph \"natedj@hotmail.com\"", "helpful": [206, 209], "reviewText": "This is my first Navi ever, but I'm no stranger to it, I just never owned one till now. For the features I was looking for, I narrowed my options to The Garmin 2620, Garmin C330, and Megellan 700. Needless to say the C330 was my pick.I painstakingly reviewed these (3) GPS items and read every review and feedback I could find, then I comb the manufacturers websites for all specs and features,updates yaddy yadda, then I made a few trips to the store to get some hands on experience and feel of the products.The C330 has a refreshing out of box experience. It can be fired up right away to begin use. I did not need to read the manual to start using it, the idiot proof interface makes it very easy to learn, which is a plus because my wife can use it when I'm doing the driving. The models that I also considered provided a little more features than the C330, But they did not have an internal power source. Memory-wise, the C330 has a 2 GIG micro drive, which is quite adequate for all the US maps and any updates etc.Personally, my heart was set on the Magellan 700, but the cost and the fact that it only had 2 million POI (Points of Interest) compared to Garmin 5 million POI, turned me away from it. Of the (3) items I considered, the C330 is the only one that has a 100% touch screen interface and the smallest size so that it can be mounted/stored anywhere. GPSs' are not getting any bigger, with today's designers using micro/flash memory technology, our units will become more inconspicuous.The C330 can be a little difficult to see in the Sunlight, but not too bad. The Megellan 700 and the Garmin 2620 does have a port for an external antenna as well as the C330, which can be had for about $20 from a third party source.The manual is very easy to read and colorful, but I found that it was not in-depth, some things I had to call Garmin to clarify. I was curious about the internal battery, that only they can change. It would cost $125 just to send the unit in if it needed work outside of the warranty period.....hopefully the battery will last about five years when I'm ready to upgrade.Garmin updated maps usually comes out every 10-14 months so one is due out any time now. and it would cost me $75 to update the maps if I so desire. If you plan to get one and you get it on or after the new maps release date, the upgrade would be free.I'm very please with the touch screen response and the layout out the maps, the list of Hotels, restaurants etc. all w/ phone numbers too. the volume is great, as long as you're not do 80MPH w/ your windows down. It recognizes dirt roads also - provided that the roads all existed before 2004 (the last map release date).I will not be redundant and mention all the other points that the previous reviews mention, but for the most part the (3-4) reviews before mine were accurate and very helpful.The C330 does not display your elevation, which is a minus, it's nice to know when driving in the mountains.This unit has its share of nuggets to find that will just leave you in amazement. If I had to choose all over again I'll still get the C330.Buyers beware, If you purchase the more expensive model (c330) it comes preloaded with all the maps so there is no need to be transferring data back and forth, but you DO NOT get the software on City Select CD ROM. If you opt for the cheaper version (C320) you will get the City Select CD, because the entire map can't fit on that unit..you'll have to transfer data via memory card.I've also noticed that unless you are looking directly perpendicular to the screen, the colors don't show correctly, in other words if you are the driver or passenger and you look at the screen at an angle, it will be still visible but the colors tend to wash out, sort of like with a laptop if the screen is not tilted right.My experience with Tech support is fair. The wait time is a little lengthy, but once one the phone, they don't try to rush you through your questions to get you off the phone. I was helped adequately with all my questions.A great advantage is the mounting flexibility, any area of the windshield, the dashboard or console (comes w/base mount) or as a handheld providing the internal battery doesn't quit. Icons, splash screens and markers can by customerized via the Garmin software on their website. the images can be transported back and forth from the unit as BMP files and edited.There are three ways to view the map1) Bird's eye view with the map always facing north and the arrow/cursor moves as you drive.2) Bird's eye view with the arrow remains still and the map moves around as you drive3) \"3D\" mode. Where the view is the same as you would see out of your windshield except it's slightly elevated so you can see a wider angle and detect streets about a block away an all three sides of you.The unit automatically detects your speed and zooms out when you're driving fast and zooms in when you're moving slow, so you're never over/under driving the map. The receiver is very good in my opinion, sometimes (depend on what part of the house I am) I get a good signal indoors. I have my C330 mounted above my rearview mirror in my vehicle (barely got it to fit) so it does NOT have a clear view of the sky and if it did, the factory tint in the windshield would also block it...yet I get a good signal. Mounting it on the middle of my windshield yield the best results and start up time, but I chose to mount it above my rearview mirror to eliminate any sunlight glare from hitting the screen and it's working great.To respond to previous reviewers comments.... It was pointed out that Garmin should've added a feature where you can see an Icon or marker that indicated the locations of all the POI nearby as you drive by them. Well I've found a way to do it, although it's not noted in Garmin's sub-par manual. All you have to do is go to [Menu - Where To - Show Map] and you'll see all the attractions, lodging, eating, gas etc. locations on the road/area that you're currently on.Another thing that's not mentioned on the manual. Lets say you're somewhere and you don't know the address, but you want to save and revisit that location. Go to [Menu - Where TO - Show Map - Info - Save]", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Hats offf to Garmin's C330", "unixReviewTime": 1118966400, "reviewTime": "06 17, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2U6BIIZTBXBL8", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "RHB in PA", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "UPDATE: Have owned for nearly 4 months. Just updated the maps to v.8. This unit is great. BIG BENEFIT OF GPS (I'M ATTEMPTING TO BE A \"VISIONARY\" HERE) is that more than helping you FIND, it helps you stay \"unlost.\" It makes you more willing to travel off the beaten path, because you're not afraid of getting lost. I wonder if this will reverse the demise of local sights/stops/shops brought about by interstate highways over the years.------------Bought a \"reconditioned\" unit at Bass Pro Shops...they say it's a brand new overstock from another retailer, and therefore can't be sold as \"new.\" $100 less than a truly \"new\" unit, so I bought it. Took it home, downloaded the software updates via Garmin's \"web updater\" tool, programmed in \"favorite\" addresses for an imminent weekend trip, and attached to windshield to L of rear-view mirror, at top of windshield so as not to block view. Outstanding. Satellite acquisition time is good, the unit is extraordinarily easy to use, and it doesn't distract with non-GPS bells and whistles, such as MP3, traffic (I have that on my XM Radio), etc. It's a basic GPS, ridiculously simple to use, with a good screen (size and image quality) and good touch sensitivity. While it doesn't verbalize street names (\"turn right\" is what it says), the street names are displayed in a bar at top of screen; for the difference in price between this unit and the 340, this unit is a steal, unless you need the traffic capability.  VERY tempted to pick up a second unit for my wife's car.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Sept. 25 update >>>", "unixReviewTime": 1149379200, "reviewTime": "06 4, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AXNSG4A5QNZID", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "Ryan Lim", "helpful": [98, 98], "reviewText": "Ok, I'm not going to give a super technical breakdown of the pro's and con's. You can read the 2xx other reviews for that. I will tell this much: c330 is a great unit for one heck of a price (299 shipped!!!). You really just take it out of the box and it's ready to go. First off, I've never owned any GPS equipment. So even though higher models like the c340 speaks the street names, or the nuvi 350 is no bigger than a deck of cards, the c330 has everthing a gps newb needs to get around town, or across the country. US and Canda are already loaded. I really wanted the Nuvi 350 but it was out of my price range. I was considering the c320 to save more money, but with the $20 price difference (on Amazon) it was only logical to get the c330. It's got most major restaurants, gas stations, attractions and a bunch of other categorized POI's that I'll probably never need, but just nice to know they exist if I need them...or if I'm bored and just want to see what other POI this thing has. As far as the voice nav goes she usually tells me to turn when it's at .1 mile. I think the \"turn\" prompts can be a bit sooner, but as long as you're aware you will be fine.  Now it would be nice if it said the actual street name, but all it takes is a quick glance to see which street she's talking about and you're on track.The text on the screen is clear and readable. I have mine mounted near the bottom of my windshield. Btw, that mount has very good suction. I don't know what people are talking about when they say the mount doesn't hold. Here's what some people might overlook on the mount: It's got a lever that is in the \"locked\" position when you get it. So what you've got to do is flip up the lever to \"unlocked\". Stick it to the windshield and flip the lever down to \"locked\" and that thing will be on there nice and tight! To take it off, just work it in reverse and off it will come.There are a few things I noticed. Almost all routes chosen where the ones my fiance would choose (she's the Baltimore local not me). I have mine set to Fastest Route , but some destinations have me take a turn too early or go around. Case in point, I went to Costco today and was told it was right if off the highway, but the c330 told me to go right basically making one big circle. It was just a couple minutes extra so no big deal. Now if I was by myself I wouldn't have even noticed b/c I was not at all familiar with the area. So yes, there is the chance that it won't pick the most ideal route, but then again that Garmin route won't have you too far off from the route that a person familiar with the area would chose.I haven't tested the SD slot, but I've read that it's pretty useless for loading custom POIs until you step up to the c530 models and higher. The SD slot does read maps for other countries so all hope is not lost if and when you plan to travel to areas outside the U.S. In order to load custom POIs you'd need to take the c330 in with you and use the USB to plug it directly to your computer. You'd basically load it directly onto the c330's internal memory. Garmin says its got 2mb of internal memory, though they didnt specify how much of that is actually used by the unit. So up to this point I don't know how much usuable internal memory there is. I don't plan to load tons and tons of POI so its doesn't seem to be an issue with me. What I've done in the few days I've used it is to look up where I want to go (on the internet) and get the address or just look it up on the c330. I've saved locations that I frequent in the Favorites section so they'll be there when I need them.Another thing I want to mention is the size. Don't expect to fit this in your jeans pocket and not have people notice ;). Yes, it is small, but not Nuvi 350 small. But to get Nuvi 350 small you need to cough up about $150 more. May not seem like much more, but for those on a budget I think you can overcome the size issue. I usually keep mine in my jacket pocket where there's more space. I don't even notice it's there. I also carry a side bag, but I won't be putting it there until I get a case for it.I haven't had the chance to use it in direct sunlight. People say the glare is killer, but I'm sure it's not anything that an antiglare screen can't fix. Amazon sells those too. They're from Boxwave if you're curious.So there it is. Just a few minor setbacks that can easily be overlooked or overcome with a few adjustments. It doesn't have all the fancy features like an mp3 player or bluetooth, but if you just want to know how to get somewhere with confidence and at the same time have some really useful functions with a well known brand you cant go wrong with the c330...btw, did I mention it's only $299 :)", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Not all the bells and whistles, but still great...and who needs bells and whistles anyway???", "unixReviewTime": 1165363200, "reviewTime": "12 6, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AGS0Z0HRRH2BI", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "SeeWeed", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "I bought this model 3 weeks ago and am still amazed at what it can do. First of all, I was able to use this gadget out of the box with minutes of walking out with it from the store. I paid for it, got in the car, ripped it out of the box and turned it on. I didnt even open the manual. This was the very first time that I ever tried using a GPS unit, yet I was able to turn it on and head straight home using the voice instructions.  It has no visible buttons except for the power on switch and the volume dial on the side. Large letters and large screen. Clarity of picture was excellent and this was at 12 high noon. The sun was directly above me so the car had ample shade for the screen anyway. Fast forward to now. Three weeks later, I used this thing on a trip to New Jersey which is about 300 miles from home. Auto rerouting was almost instantaneous, though I did lose satellite reception a couple of times while roaming in downtown streets. Very user friendly, you can search for nearby points of interests, gas, food, lodging, etc and the touch screen menu was very easy to use. I still haven't opened the manual!  It does have some problems distinguishing left versus right . Once I was arriving at a state park and it did bring me all the way there, but it said it was on my right side when actually the park was on my left! For a complete gps novice like myself, this unit has proven it self to be very very easy to use and packed with so many details. Fully loaded, you don't need to download the US as it is already downloaded for you. Battery backup is very handy as you can use it as a handheld device for hiking although it is shaped somewhat funny/boxy for that purpose plus it is not waterproof.  It saves your favorite searches too. You can choose between 2d or 3d view. It attaches to your front window via a suction cup mechanism. Would definitely recommend for ease of use and comprehensive information content.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I really really love this !", "unixReviewTime": 1121040000, "reviewTime": "07 11, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3HY41Q854BQ2C", "asin": "B0007LJHVA", "reviewerName": "SuitedPair", "helpful": [21, 29], "reviewText": "Everything everyone is saying about the unit's positives are true.  Worked right out of the boc, great screen, small size.  A great unit.  BUT, it got me \"lost\" on the first time out.  I asked it to get me to the Tangers Outlet Center in Riverhead, NY, fully knowing how to get there.  It brough me to a spot in the middle of nowhere about 5 miles away, and insisted that I was in the outlet center.  I could not figure out a way to have it get me to the right place.  I'm lucky that it was a test run and I knew how to get where I was going.  But I returned the unit as a GPS that gets you lost really fails the very function it is designed for.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Everything great, but got lost on first time out", "unixReviewTime": 1120176000, "reviewTime": "07 1, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1L3U9ZRIBJEHJ", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Aditya Sjartuni", "helpful": [10, 15], "reviewText": "Canon EOS 350D is the most sophisticated gadget I ever have. Previously I have a 35 mm film camera and pocket Digital camera and this camera more valuable for the semi professional consumers. Start with the new look design (smaller then Nikon D 70s or D 50) and light then both of its. The feature it's rich. You can find this feature in professional camera also. The advantage of this gadget is you can set every scene manually or automatic from focus, white balance, aperture, speed, flash, ISO, metering etc. This is important for the professional photographer to have the best photo. Continues shooting feature is 3 times a second and starting time below a second. I just bought I month ago and I feel I already expert on using it. I try a many setting in manual shoot with set the aperture, white balance and aperture the result is very good that I never have a photo like it is before. The battery is good even I already shoot 100 times with maximum jpg files (8 m pixel) the batteries still function in good condition. The 350D can use any Canon mount lenses. I recommend this camera for the professional photographer beside the complete features this gadget has a valuable compare its price. You can have this Gadget with standard lens of EF-S 18-55 mm with only $800. You will be a professional shortly with this prosumer camera.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "EOS XT Rebel or 350D is the valuable and best semi pro camera", "unixReviewTime": 1124236800, "reviewTime": "08 17, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2VE2L6BD1T36V", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Alexander Turkatte \"Alex\"", "helpful": [24, 25], "reviewText": "This is my first SLR of any type and it was an excellent purchase.  I bought my Rebel XT approx. six months ago and I'm still learning new things everyday.  I've since purchased the 430EX flash, Sigma 18-200, Tomron 28-300 lens, Kinko 2X extender (cheap lens), Battery Grip, and a second battery.  I love the manual settings for low-light work and taking several servo speed shots.  I'm not familiar yet with taking RAW photo shots instead of JPEG, but I'm still researching this.I thought I would want the teleophoto lens most, but now I realize I'm more interested in the wide lens and I'm seriously looking at the Sigma 10-20mm lens.  I still like the telephoto lens for the long distance shots, but I find I'm taking more photos either indoors or of large buildings and monuments where I want to get the whole object in the picture without being far away (where more obstacles block a clear sight).Essential gear is probably a large memory card!!  I found an Ultra II 2GB CF card for $85 on another website - I had purchased about three 512MB cards and now I don't have to switch out so much for the high JPEG setting.  A Tripod is needed for any serious telephoto, low-light, or any shot with long shutter speed.  The battery grip is needed for those that think the camera is too small or want to at least look like a pro.  I know I'm a rookie, but I love walking around Europe snapping shots anywhere I can.  This camera has certainly peaked my interest in the other \"full-frame\" dSLR cameras, but I probably won't spend too much more money unless I can make some money with it.  Hope this helps!!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Budget dSLR - Great for beginners", "unixReviewTime": 1142035200, "reviewTime": "03 11, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2OCEWSNGZNSUH", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer", "helpful": [11, 13], "reviewText": "I am sure there are going to be enough reviews this week to bump me down before anyone can read my review, so I'm just going to give my 5 stars and tell you, \"It's a ton of fun.\" It's a ton of fun.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great step up", "unixReviewTime": 1170460800, "reviewTime": "02 3, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1HM7PBAY2S5NQ", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "I bought this camera after doing a lot of internet research.  It won out over a similar Olympus model because of immediate availability.  I was preparing for a trip to Rome and I needed the camera right away.  It came just a few days before my trip so I had little time to get acquainted with all the features.  In spite of that, it worked flawlessly during my week in Rome and I came back with hundreds of beautiful shots.  Now that I have had a little time with the camera, I've found that there are a number of handy features I didn't initially notice.  I'm just an amateur photographer, so I can't give a professional perspective, but from an amateur standpoint it is a superb camera that gives excellent results.  Time exposures can be done automatically and come out great.  Auto exposure usually works well, and it easy to override for special conditions.  As with any digital camera, you can review the results immediately and make adjustments if needed.  I only purchased mine with two lenses, to cover a wide variety of focal lengths,  but as soon as I have the money, there are numerous available accessories I would love to have.  As you can tell, I'm \"sold\" on this camera.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Not quite perfect", "unixReviewTime": 1138320000, "reviewTime": "01 27, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AZK36SWLHWCOQ", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "I selected this Canon d-SLR camera because of the DigicII processor capturing images at 8 megapixels. So far I have been shooting in only two formats-RAW and high-res JPG. After two weeks of shooting, I'm starting to get used to the different options. I like shooting in black and white in RAW format, but it is nice to also be able to reprocess these images back into full color with the software that comes packaged with the camera. The camera is so good that it is forcing me to buy a new photo printer to do it justice. I bought the standard \"kit\" lens with the 18-55mm zoom. It is a good lens for the price. I just wish it were just a little faster than f3.5-5.6. I do, have the option,however, of buying about four more Canon EF-S lenses (offered as of 9/2005) that are made especially for the camera's sensor dimensions as well as many EF lenses. Flexibility, ease of use, small learning curve, great photos, and a concise but well organized owner's manual all make the Canon Rebel XT (350D) a great digital camera to own.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great, Flexible Camera", "unixReviewTime": 1126051200, "reviewTime": "09 7, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2SU6CA6HSK85I", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer", "helpful": [20, 23], "reviewText": "Amazing pictures. Rich colors, practically no noise, sharp and full of detail. The A-DEP mode is my favorite feature for those arty shots. The instant response makes for much better photos than a compact digital camera.For me, the killer feature of the Canon over other DSLRs and high end all-in-one cameras is the usable ISO 1600. Yes, there's noise, but only about as much as my old PowerShot S100 produced all the time. Put a cheap 50mm f/1.8 lens on, and you can take handheld photos indoors without flash. In old churches, even.The only downside with the camera is that your 50mm lens becomes an 80mm, and it's very expensive to get anything equivalent to a wide angle lens on a film SLR because you need it to be a 20mm or less. If you like wide angle shots, you might want to hold off for a full frame sensor.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "The focal length multiplier is the only down side", "unixReviewTime": 1142985600, "reviewTime": "03 22, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A21QJ6WV3K2X74", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer", "helpful": [22, 22], "reviewText": "After a long and detailed due diligence on a mid-level professional digital cameras, my search ended between Nikon (D70/D50) and Canon (20D/350D).  I finally decided on 350D for its balance of a great value and a huge variety of after-market accessories and web-based support and advice.I recently received this camera from Amazon and, though my expectation was rather high and the camera did not blow me away, I'm very happy with the purchase.PROS:- Light, compact, and ergonomically designed.- The camera does NOT feel plasticky at all.  It feels solid and  radiates the craftsmanship of a prosumer product.- Easy to use.  Take the camera out of the box and start snapping away.- The bundled software is useful if not professional quality.- Amazing flash performance.  Pictures taken in total dark comes out looking professionally lit.- Quiet when snapping pictures.  Fast startup time.  Very good batter life.- For a fan of Canon, add to the inventory of other Canon products, from camera to lenses to printers to photo paper.CONS:- The EF-S zoom lens that comes with it is rather slow and a bit disappointing in picture quality.- The camera - as many reviewers complained - is ergonomic but does not feel very well balanced.  It's very awkward to take a picture with only one hand holding the camera - you need two hands.  No matter how I tried, my grip on the camera never feels comfortable.- Documentation is buggy and uneven.  Some of the step-by-step instructions simply do not work, and I had to figure out the correct steps by playing with the controls myself.(...)Amazon double-boxed the package, which arrived without a dent.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great but Not Perfect.  4.5 Stars.", "unixReviewTime": 1134864000, "reviewTime": "12 18, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3EDVUU7LRFZEJ", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Bob Dobolina", "helpful": [26, 109], "reviewText": "In my opinion, this camera suffers from a couple of serious problems that makes it an extremely poor choice for anyone looking for a professional-level DSLR:1). It's trying to be too many things to too many levels of photographer.  Canon is clearly going for the consumer/semi-professional/professional market.  In my opinion it turns a potentially great camera into an expensive gadget.  Too many features, too many menu options, too many automatic modes--in short, too much of everything.  Imagine buying a car that has manual AND automatic transmission and is a combination hard-top/rag-top convertible with disc and drum brakes front and back, an AM/FM radio, CD player, cassette player, 8-track tape player, reel-to-reel player, record player, and a 16-track digital recording studio.  \"Cool!\" you say?  Buy this camera right now.  I'm looking for a good quality DSLR to replace my standard SLR.  This camera has way too many gee-whiz features designed to appeal to the consumer market.  It makes it a pain in the arse to use--unless you want those features, of course.  I don't.2). You can't use the display as a viewfinder.  This is a huge deal-killer, in my opinion.  One of the great advantages of a digital camera is the ability to use the onscreen display for setting up your shots.  I understand they're trying to maximize battery life, but a digital camera where you CAN NOT use the display while you're shooting is absurd.3). Terrible macro mode.  Not just average.  Terrible.  You definitely need an optional macro lens in order to take decent macro photos with this camera.  Otherwise, you're going to be stuck with Canon's bizarre decision to force the use of flash in macro mode (you get to choose between no flash mode or macro mode in the auto settings (but not both(?)) or manual mode with an optional lens).  Buying a closeup lens for a high-end camera is reasonable to expect, I suppose, except that I've never run into this problem with ANY other digital camera I've used.  Most are great for quick-and-dirty macro photography right out of the box.4). The dumbest manual white-balance procedure I've ever seen in my life.  Use it.  I dare you.5). Incredibly lousy manual.  Standard feature for ALL cameras these days, I know.  Doesn't excuse the fact, however.Don't get me wrong, this is a GREAT camera that takes excellent pictures and works as advertised.  It just not anywhere close to what I was looking for.  Canon could have skipped 80% of the features and simplified a few others and I would have kept this camera.  For now, I'll stick to my Sony DSC-H1 for snaps and my trusty old Nikon and Canon F-1 for the rest.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "I Hate This Camera", "unixReviewTime": 1139788800, "reviewTime": "02 13, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A31Z1CGBRXLB8", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Bradley J. Taylor", "helpful": [17, 17], "reviewText": "I just got back from taking this camera to Ireland with me...wow!!  Friends and family both have said the quality is amazing, suitable for poster-size prints.  Being new to SLRs, I had to really find some organized way to run through the auto modes and creative modes to figure out what was going on, but it didn't take long.  You just have to take photos of the same subject with the same light through each mode to identify the characteristics of each.  I'm now starting to really enjoy the range of possibilities with the creative modes.I'm glad I upgraded to the Canon 17-85mm IS USM lens, because the kit lens didn't seem good enough for this camera.  But the quality of colors and resolution is simply unbelievable!I highly recommend this camera for anyone wanting to get into SLRs for a very good price and almost unlimited expandability.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Incredible digiSLR for the price!", "unixReviewTime": 1132012800, "reviewTime": "11 15, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AGXV8E7XK9J6H", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Brian Koch \"Aspiring Photographer\"", "helpful": [32, 34], "reviewText": "Before this camera I had only used point and shoot digital and 35mm cameras.  Now I can never go back, my pass-time turned into an addiction.  The features, lenses, quality, and ease of use that this camera offers are astonishing.  I started out just buying the 60mm macro lens and the 70-300mm zoom when I originally got this camera.  Now I have more lenses and equipment than I ever thought possible.  I am up to about 15,000 pictures and going strong without any problems and it just keeps getting better.  If you are looking for a great camera to get you into SLR photography this is it.  I am considering upgrading to the 30D soon, but I plan to keep my XT as a backup and to use with a wide angle lens while keeping the longer telephoto lens mounted on the second camera body.  For the price though, you would be hard-pressed to find a better deal.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "XT, the Gateway to Great Things", "unixReviewTime": 1146096000, "reviewTime": "04 27, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A20H1M28WLI9J2", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Brian M. Edwards", "helpful": [21, 21], "reviewText": "I have had digital cameras for about 5 years and still own an Olympus 5 megapixel, and a Casio 7 megapixel. Seems like Megamixels alone just don't cut it for me.I read about the rebel XT in a magazine and looked up the user reviews here on Amazon.I decided to go and buy one and though I am really a novice, I am extremely impressed. I have never seen such stunning quality or realistic colors from a Point & Shoot. I started with the basic settings and love the results.I am slowly progressing to more advanced settings and am getting better everyday.Even a novice who just wants stunning photography will be amazed with this camera.I also bought a Tamron 75-300 Autofocus zoom lens (look for it here on Amazon.com) and after lots of practice, have been able to take some great pictures.I have a brother in the UK who is also into digital photography, and after seeing some (full reso) photos I sent him, he rushed out and bought the XTi (called the EOS 400D across the pond)and is amazed with it.I still have a lot to learn but really cannot fault this camera. The included software is also excellent.For the record, some reviews seem to think it is too small to hold, I have big hands and don't have any problems at all. I admit though this is the first SLR I have ever owned.I will still keep a point and shoot to keep in my travel bag for spontaneous photography but I am in love with my Rebel XT!!This camera costs quite chunk of change but I think it is well worth it and I do recommend it to everyone.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Camera", "unixReviewTime": 1160179200, "reviewTime": "10 7, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A4SQU768YBR2J", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Charles Macnaughton", "helpful": [12, 13], "reviewText": "I am not a professional photographer. I take the usual memoir-type photos, but in addition I am a flora/fauna enthusiast. This camera with the stock lens--off the shelf--is great for taking close-ups of flowers and insects. I had anticipated having to buy a more specialized macro lens (and I no doubt will, eventually) for this type of work but I was pleasantly surprised to find that I could take better than expected closeups with the supplied kit lens.I also have aquariums and this camera is great for aqua-photography as well.Performance: My last digital camera was a Nikon CoolPix. From necessity I got used to the lag-times involved in actually capturing images. With this Canon model, however, that's not an issue. When you click, you get your photo, and you can take one after another, without delay and with that satisfying \"click\" you get from an SLR. With the Nikon, I was never sure when I had even taken a picture.This camera is outstanding. The only issue that may affect your decision is weight. If you're looking for a small, light-weight type of casual camera then go with something else. This camera is designed more for those who want the flexibility/options of the traditional SLR. It's got the heft of an \"old-style\" SLR, so if you want something less cumbersome this isn't the model for you.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I LOVE this camera", "unixReviewTime": 1122508800, "reviewTime": "07 28, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AHSKJ866FHDC1", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Chris \"Chris\"", "helpful": [12, 18], "reviewText": "Just a few words on my first impression. The weight of autofocus lenses (at least my USM 28-105 3.5) makes for a challenging hold to maintain a rock-steady posture to take crisply sharp photos, especially at higher magnifications. I'm inclined to trade it in for an IS lense (yes, it is an additional $200+), but may be a virtual necessity. The extra cost in going SLR to me isn't worth comprising what your objective is in going from darn good point and shoot resolution (at least from my Olympus 4000)to the quality one expects from this upgrade. This rating doesn't reflect on the camera, just the photos taken without IS (yes, it is subjective). The camera itself has much potential.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Better off with IS", "unixReviewTime": 1149984000, "reviewTime": "06 11, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A24957HBA987VN", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "C. Moore \"The Authorguy\"", "helpful": [189, 198], "reviewText": "First, a couple of things.I wanted this camera to be great. I researched all the consumer dSLRs and decided on the XT Rebel 350 because of it's size and 8MP CCD, plus, I'd had two Canon point and shoot digitals that were fantastic.I've been taking pictures on a semi-professtional level for thirty years and I attended Brooks Institute of Photography, so I sort of know what I'm doing.Bought the Rebel XT at a local store in San Francisco, along with the Canon 28-200 Zoom. Immediately went up to Chinatown to shoot pictures of the Festival of the Harvest Moon with my wife, who was using her Nikon D70 with the Nikon 28-200.Shot pictures all day, and absolutely loved the way the XT handled. It was very intuitive, fast, had a bright viewfinder -- I couldn't have been happier.Then, we got home and looked at the pictures. I'd shot mostly on automatic, or shutter priority all day, with shutter speeds above 250th of a second.Bottom line, my wife's pictures were crystal clear, popped really, and mine of the same or similar subjects were just a tad fuzzy. You couldn't tell at 5x7 or so, but when you brought it up to 8x10  or above the difference was obvious. I checked the historgram on the shots, and they were made at nearly the same settings. Couldn't be, right? After all, the Nikon is only 6 MP, the Canon 8MP.So I put both cameras on a tripod, pointed them at a brick wall with a sign about 100 feet away, set everything the same on the cameras, and low and behold, same fuzziness.I took the Canon back the next day and traded it in on a D70. Now, maybe I got a bad lense, or a camera where the auto-focus was tweaked, but I couldn't afford the time to test it out again and again. I knew the Nikon would work, and it did (and does).Since then, I've talked to friends, professionals, who say that the XT is known to have auto-focus \"issues\".  This seems to be inconsistent, with some reviewers being delighted by the camera, others having a little problem.As I said above, the camera handles really well, intuitively, and  I actually like the compact size (some SLR users like a heavier camera). I may have gotten a lemon, but if you are going to need to depend on getting sharp pictures and can't go back for reshoots, I'd step up to the Canon D20 or go with a Nikon dSLR.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Handles Great, Autofocus just not there", "unixReviewTime": 1137542400, "reviewTime": "01 18, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1CUYHRFZVEGJH", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "David Hefner \"Gadgetman\"", "helpful": [33, 34], "reviewText": "I've been using this camera for a few months now and I can't say anything but praise.  I've transitioned from using point and shoot cameras to the SLR.  I just can't believe the difference.  The quality of the photos is truly amazing.I was actually debating between the Nikon D70 and the XT.  I had been preferring the D70 b/c of the \"better\" kit lens.  But I actually went to Best Buy and took pictures with both cameras, side by side, at different settings including full auto.  I then printed out prints to compare the two.  The XT was ablt to pick up small shows and detail in the back of the store that the D70 just showed as a blur.  All different settings looked better with the XT.  The pictures were much, much clearer and crisper and the color was much more like actual colors in the store.  Also, the D70 wasn't as easy to use as the XT.  The menus were not as clear as the XT.  Needless to say, I stopped looking into the D70.Now, over 7500 photos later, I'm totally happy with my choice.  I have actually zoomed in on portraits using my desktop and was able to see the tear ducts in my daughter's eyes.  The camera is also simple enough for my wife to take great photos.Pros: 3 pics per second - super fast.  Great price for a dig SLR. Easy to use menus.  Great indoor photos.  Battery charges in less than 2 hrs and lasts forever.  Many great Canon lenses to choose from.  Manual and auto focus lens is great.  Great clarity photos.  8 megapixal is awesome.  Prints great 8x10's.  (I also just got the Canon MP500 printer AIO.  Only 150 w/ free S/H)Cons: only uses CF media (and doesn't come w/ a card) - I like CF though b/c you can buy the larger CF type 2 cards - I got the 6GB card - can take about 1500 pics on highest quality.  SD or other types of media are more limited on size of cards.Overall - GREAT Camera.  I totally recommend for regular home use or professional use.  Great price.  Can't go wrong with this one.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "What an amazing camera!!! Also: Comparison b/w NIKON D70 and Rebel XT.", "unixReviewTime": 1137628800, "reviewTime": "01 19, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3ADIP5X5YTUTL", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "D. Simon", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "This is my first DSLR, but not my first SLR.  I've owned the Prowershot Pro70 and the G3, and the Rebel XT is a great value in the DSLR range of products.  The basic lens that comes in the kit is adequate and will suit most beginners, but I suggest getting the body and spending some extra money on a decent lens for those who are familiar with SLR's.Great camera, and I'm sure it will last me for a couple of years while I brush up on my photography skills.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great feel in hands and quick shutter", "unixReviewTime": 1138752000, "reviewTime": "02 1, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1L64KDYO5BOJA", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Floyd Goodrich \"Jim G.\"", "helpful": [24, 24], "reviewText": "I am 67 years old and started out in photography as a kid with a contact printer and a box camera. I have had all types of cameras over the years, mostly 35mm film Canon slr's. I too bought all sorts of these 5-7 MP point and shoot digital cameras before returning to my true love, SLR's. I have had my digital Canon Rebel XT about a month now and I can't keep my hands off of it. It lacks nothing. Although the kit lense is good, I bought a 28-135 Canon zoom lense with image stabilizion and have produced stunning photo's with it. I love the way you can use the 7 points to focus, I mainly use only the center point with focus lock and never get an out of focus picture. I guess the nicest thing for me is that I now don't have the urge to buy every point and shoot camera that is paraded out on QVC or HSN that has a \"wonderful\" new feature like \"low light or non-shake.\" This Canon has every good feature in the known universe and you can't outgrow it. Its a camera that will let you be as good as you can be, it won't hold you back. The battery life is great, the built in flash is good but I bought a 430EX and that's even better. I never figure I'm wasting money buying accessories for this camera as it will be my main squeeze for many years to come. I always missed my 35mm Canon slr's and now feel that I have an old friend back again, only much much better. Believe me, you can't go wrong getting this camera, its beyond description....", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Can't get any better than this..", "unixReviewTime": 1163980800, "reviewTime": "11 20, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1VGXHHR08G044", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "FlyingPolarBear", "helpful": [15, 15], "reviewText": "I was struggling with the decision to buy the Canon S3 vs. the Rebel XT for several weeks.  I ended up returning the S3 to buy the Rebel XT and I'm very happy with it.  Many people compare the S3 with this SLR model, but the optical quality is a world apart.  Because of physics, you simply cannot get the same quality with the S3 zoom lens that covers the entire range.  The Rebel XT snaps the pictures almost immediately when you press the shutter button.  The accessories on this camera, such as the battery charger, feel closer to professional grade.  If you are struggling with the same decision, I think you will be very happy to leave the compact-consumer grade cameras and enter the SLR world, with many more creative photo taking possibilities.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Professional quality photos at a compact camera price", "unixReviewTime": 1152316800, "reviewTime": "07 8, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A5JLAU2ARJ0BO", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Gadgester \"No Time, No Money\"", "helpful": [733, 776], "reviewText": "I spent three hours yesterday playing with the brand-new Canon Digital Rebel XT digital SLR camera, and man, was I impressed.I hadn't been too impressed with the original Digital Rebel, except for its revolutionarily low price (for a d-SLR), because it was slow and felt slimsy.  The new DR XT is quite different.  Even though it's 3 ounces lighter than the original DR -- mostly due to the use of a smaller battery; see below -- its smaller form factor actually makes it feel more solid and \"real\".  In other word, unlike the original DR, this one feels professional, not toy-like at all.By now you probably already know Canon makes some of the best digital cameras in the world.  Even though I'm a Nikon shooter when it comes to d-SLR (sorry, loyal Canon shooters!), I own a couple Canon compact digital cameras and love them, too.  The DR XT's image quality is once again excellent.  I took a few indoor shots with the camera, both with and without flash, and then the store clerk let me download them to their PC.  The JPEG pictures (I didn't try RAW) looked excellent on the Sony LCD screen, on par with the more expensive EOS 20D d-SLR.  Color tones were accurate and the resolution was really good.  The improvement picture quality over the original DR (\"DR Classic\"? BTW it's now $200 cheaper) comes from both the 2 extra megapixels and the better color accuracy.  BTW, the DR XT reportedly uses a tecchnically different CMOS sensor than the original DR, although I haven't been able to find out exactly how this one is better in technical terms than the old one (other than the two extra megapixels).  No matter, my limited true-world testing showed the image quality is indeed better than the already-excellent image quality of the original DR.  And, as in the past, Canon does a wonderful job at keeping noise low -- I considered noise acceptable up until ISO 800.The kit, which I recommend, comes with the same flimsy 3x EF-S lens (which won't work on regular film SLRs) as the original DR.  You should most definitely get a better lens, although the kit lens works well as a \"street zoom.\"  I didn't get a chance to test the lens outdoors as the store wouldn't let me take it outside, but I have no doubt that this new model can only be better than the original DR, which was already very good even before you considered its low price.The DR XT is fast: at last, you can turn it on and start shooting without waiting several seconds like you had to with the original DR.  The only downside compared to the original DR is the smaller, lighter battery in the DR XT also means shorter battery life.  I highly recommend you get an extra battery or two.  You won't be able to go through a full day of shooting on just one battery, even if you don't use flash much.  (But all pros and pro-wannabes use fill-in flash, don't we?)  I also recommend a good camera bag; I personally like Tamrac for that.  In addition to the spare battery (batteries), bag and a better lens or two, also consider getting a tripod (Sunpak ones are cheap but ok quality), an external flash as well as filters -- esp. a high-qual circular polarizing filter.In summary, the Canon Digital Rebel XT is another stunning winner from Canon.  It features faster speeds (start-up and shot-to-shot), excellent image quality, and terrific look-and-feel.  Despite my personal preference for Nikon pro-level gear, I can recommend this Canon d-SLR to my friends without reservation.Feel free to e-mail me at gadgester @t hotmail with your questions and commends.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Another stunning winner from the bright minds at Canon", "unixReviewTime": 1110844800, "reviewTime": "03 15, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AO13TNMQBPLZE", "asin": "B0007QKMQY", "reviewerName": "Gene Twilley \"GTwilley\"", "helpful": [22, 22], "reviewText": "We purchased this camera about 2 months ago and have been nothing but pleased with its performance thus far. What you have in this Canon Rebel XT is all of the function, expandability, and speed of your standard SLR teamed with the convenience and flexibility of digital photography with Canon Quality. I don't think you can beat the quality to price ratio on this Camera - it's the sort of investment that we won't be kicking ourselves for 3 years down the road.The Pros:1. As stated, function, expandability, and speed of an SLR built into a digital Camera.2. The camera is built to last for quite some time - it's durable in its construction and the 8MP capability will produce super prints for years to come.3. The battery: The life has been phenomenal so far - I don't think that I've seen the meter drop below \"full,\" while taking photographs, and that's at taking over 400 photos at a time (not all at once though, of course). Plus, it's rechargeable - Kudos to Canon for their forward thinking4. Speed, Speed, Speed. The camera acts just like a 35mm which means that it has a pretty fast processor.5. Cost - a very economical choice considering what you have in this camera.The Cons:1. Expect it to be heavy, because it is.2. There's no built in memory. So buy a compact flash card when you buy this camera as you will need it.3. Related to the above: A good compact flash card is not necessarily \"cheap.\"Altogether, this camera is worth it. Buy a 1GB Compact flash and you'll be able to take more pictures at one time than most will need.[...]", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Outstanding purchase.", "unixReviewTime": 1152748800, "reviewTime": "07 13, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2NXCQS8E99C6R", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "David", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "I've had the Canon SD400 for about 2 months now, and I would like to compare it to my other camera, Canon G3, which I bought 2 years ago.I am amazed by the advance in technology in 2 years.  The Digic 2 chip really is much faster.  Startup time, shot to shot time, focus times are all significantly faster.  The SD series of course is much smaller than the G series.  For outdoor daytime photography, I can't tell the difference between the picture quality of the 2 cameras.  They both take excellent pictures but the SD focuses a bit faster.For indoor flash photography, I have the Canon 420EX external flash for the G3, and hence I can get higher quality pictures by completely eliminating red eye and also by using bounce flash.  However, sometimes the G3 has a lot of trouble focusing, whereas the SD400 does not.One final benefit of the SD400 is that it uses USB 2.0 transfer which is much faster than the G3 USB 1.  Also note that the SD200 and SD300 are also USB 1.I feel that everyone should have 2 digital cameras, a super compact one like the SD400 for take-anywhere outdoor phtography, and a digital SLR for indoor and outdoor when you want more control and versatility.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The only camera you need for outdoor photography", "unixReviewTime": 1121644800, "reviewTime": "07 18, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3BXDHBAKLA5Y6", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "David Henderson \"David\"", "helpful": [22, 25], "reviewText": "As a digital photography enthusiast and a fan of Canon cameras, I had high hopes for the SD-400, hoping it might be a smaller and lighter weight replacement for my Canon S-50, one of three Canons I own.  What I discovered was that the SD-400 (that I ordered from Amazon) is incapable of capturing sharply focused photo.  Every photo -- wide angles from distance, medium-range, head and shoulders, close-up, macro -- everything was every-so-slightly out of focus.  It's best described as soft focus.  Out of fairness to Canon, perhaps it could be chalked up to a bad lens on this particular camera, which I returned.  But the picture quality was also consistently washed-out and no where near accurate or realistic.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Soft Focus, Disappointing Results", "unixReviewTime": 1119312000, "reviewTime": "06 21, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "APP8XWYYV4PAA", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "Debra A Chong \"ECommerceMaven\"", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "This is my 5th digital camera (I still own several Nikon SLR cameras and lenses) and I am an amateur photographer. I own a sony DSC-V1 which is a prosumer camera and has many more features (manual focus, aperature and speed and program settings, ISO to 800, etc.) which takes great pictures but too bulky for casual shooting and everyday carrying. I have also owned a 1 MP Nikon (sold for upgrade), 2MP Nikon (dropped and broken) and 3MP Nikon (too plastic and pictures always needed color balancing in Photoshop). The Canon SD 400 takes it all in terms of everyday use --- due to the easy learn features and size. For the average user, this is a GREAT CAMERA and GREAT VALUE for the price. The SD 450 has a 2.5 LCD and is heavier...After reading many reviews of the Sony T-series and SD 400 at Amazon and [...], I decided on the Canon SD 400 camera as it had many more features than the Sony T-series and was a bit lighter. Both the Sony DSC-T1 and T33 were the same price as the Canon SD 400 and about two ounces heavier.I am more than delighted with the features of the Canon SD 400 and find the pictures great for such a small point and shoot.ProsThe Manual Mode setting will let you customize various settings for shooting vs. using the Automatic Mode settings.Stitching program in Manual Mode will assist you in stitching together a panaorama shot rather than software which is more difficult to match multiple images (get it right when you are there rather than trying to adjust images that are not going to look right stitched together because you stepped back or angled the shot by accident).Ability to choose from 2 autofocus settings. The AiAF setting which is the default will take longer to focus, so you can turn it off and use a single vs. multiple focus read.Continuous shots with little lag (as long as battery lasts and memory card has storage).Easy to learn controls (the manuals that came with this camera weighed 10 times more than the camera) and features.Viewfinder with LCD (most ultracompact cameras like the Sony T-series only have LCD screens and no viewfinder).2 inch LCD.Small Size (smaller than a deck of cards) --- carry it all of the timeRelatively long battery life.Easy to purchase extra batteries (non-Canon) that are reliable and safe for the camera on E-Bay.ConsViewfinder only shows 82% of the picture vs. the LCD (You won't see that extra tree that you will have to crop out later in Photoshop).Manual is difficult to read (more a reference than a read as the camera is easy to use).Not retaining exposure change adjustments and flash settings from various shooting modes.Color swap features are hard to learn without reading the manual.Get a 1GB secure digital camera and shoot 350+ pictures in the highest resolution (super fine) and size. Carry it and you will find that you take more pictures. However, for a special occassion where there is a need to capture more detail and more manual features, I will use the Sony DSC-V1. However, I think it may get sold on E-Bay if I find that I really have the same quality of pictures that I shot with the Sony DSC-V1.Overall, I think anyone purchasing this camera will use it everyday and most, it will do more than you expected.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "GREAT little camera for point and shoot with manual controls", "unixReviewTime": 1126828800, "reviewTime": "09 16, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1F34Z13T4QMN6", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "D. Huang", "helpful": [19, 19], "reviewText": "I have owned three different digital cameras so far.  And the SD400 is by far the best of the lot.  When chosing a digital camera, it is very important to consider the company and the quality of the parts used.  It is always better, in my opinion, to go with a company which has been making top notch regular cameras for a while.  You are more likely to get excellent lens quality and camera parts.  Canon has been known to make superb SLRs and other cameras.  As such, their digital cameras are of the best quality and best lenses in the market.  As such, SD400 is an excellent product.The SD400 is a wonderful product on a many counts.- It is ultra portable.  It's compact design is not only a matter of form and asthetics.  It is quite functional... making it easy to carry around without taking up space.- The LCD screen is very vivid and clear.- The controls are very intuitive so that picture navigation and editing on the camera are easy.- It has a wide array of photo modes to suit your needs.- It is very easy to customize what size and detail you want your pictures, depending on if you plan on printing them. (If you only make 4x6 prints, you will not need to use the highest setting on the camera.  But if you plan on making an 8x11 print, you will need to increase the detail and size of the picture).- Convenient battery charger and easily removed SD card.- The picture quality is very good.  I have made prints and taken many pictures with this camera.  I have not noticed fringing problems or color problems.Some things that are not as good:- The LCD screen is a little fragile.  Most digital cameras have this problem.  But I did break it once... and it costs quite a bit to replace.- Because it is so small, it is easy to accidently touch the lense or cover the flash when you are using it.Things you will need:- Get a carrying case to protect your camera.- You may want to buy screen protectors.- Buy an SD card.  All digital cameras come with a memory card, but they are always too small (16MB).My recommendations:If you want to buy this product, remember to get familiar with the photo modes and consider the photo sizes you want.  Also, I recommend that you only use the optical zoom, and not the digital zoom, because digital zoom decreases the image quality.All in all, this is a very good product and worth buying.  I am very happy with mine, and I am sure you would be happy with yours too.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent camera on many levels", "unixReviewTime": 1137024000, "reviewTime": "01 12, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3KZCNV1N8R9GC", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "diljs", "helpful": [1698, 1719], "reviewText": "Let me begin by saying that Canon makes exceptional digital cameras; the best in the market right now. This is because they have always used high quality components since they began manufacturing digital cameras. This one is no exception.Now that I've sold you on a Canon, which one should you choose?First off, let's see if you really need an SDxxx camera, or would be better suited with a cheaper non ultraportable camera.The SDxxx Series offers several key advantages over less portable models:-Beautiful, sleek design and metallic body will wow anyone who sees it.-Gorgeous 2 inch LCD screens-The excellent Dig!c 2 processor (other Canons only have dig!c 1)-Much better movie mode than previous Canons-Small light, easy pocketabilityOn the other hand, there are some significant drawbacks due to the components Canon had to use to get the camera so small:-Few manual controls.-Pictures are not as sharp as those of similar non ultraportable cameras.-The flash is very close to the lens (lots of redeye problems)-More purple fringing issues than other Canons-Proprietary batteries that are expensive to replace-The LCD is very fragile.  Read the SD200 and SD300 reviews to see lots of unhappy people whose LCDs broke.  Canon's warranty does NOT cover this either.  My suggestion?  Buy using a credit card that offers a warranty in addition to the manufacturer's.  If your lcd breaks, many CC companies will replace the camera no questions asked!If you don't need the ultra portability and flashy looks of the SD cameras, a slightly larger camera with more features might be right for you.  I would highly suggest Canon's A510 or A520 if you don't need an SD model.If you still want an SD model, which one should you choose?  The SD200 with 3.2mp, the SD300 with 4mp, the SD400 with 5mp, or the SD500 at a whopping 7.1mp?Your first instinct may be that more megapixels is better.  Today, however megapixel ratings are similar to Ghz ratings in the computer world: They used to mean a lot, but they don't mean as much anymore. More megapixels do NOT mean a better image. They mean a larger printable image.  Unless you have to have huge prints, you simply do not more megapixels.  In fact, the 3.2mp of the SD200 is enough for anyone who doesn't plan on printing pictures larger than a standard 8.5x11 sheet of paper.That having been said, there are some differences between each SDxxx model.  In order to get the larger 7.1mp sensor in the SD500, Canon had to make the camera larger.  Thus, it is around a quarter inch thicker and 30% heavier than the other 3 models.  The larger size did enable Canon to pack more features into it, however:Features unique to the SD500:-1/4 inch thicker-30% heavier-50% longer flash range-14% more battery lifeThe SD400 and SD500 also share these benefits over the SD200/SD300:-New \"Night Display\" feature which brightens the LCD in low light-My Colors feature lets you highlight or swap colors right on the camera-USB 2.0 High Speed supportThe following are shared by all the SDxxx Cameras:Pros:-Beautiful, eye catching design-Great image quality, though not as good as non ultraportable models-New Dig!c 2 image processor-Excellent Movie Mode-3x optical zoom is adequate for most people-Excellent, intuitive manual controls-Huge 2.0 inch lcd that looks great under various lighting conditions-Uses widely available and cheap SD cardsCons (most of these are minor quirks):-Some purple fringing problems-Proprietary batteries are expensive to replace and inconvenient at times-Lots of issues with fragile LCDs-No RAW support-Few manual controlsIf you do choose this product, the first thing you should buy is a larger SD memory card. The camera comes with a 16mb card (32 in the SD500), which is pretty much useless.You should also immediately purchase a case and some screen protectors to protect the LCD.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Which of the SDxxx Series is right for you?", "unixReviewTime": 1113782400, "reviewTime": "04 18, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AC8SI4PA3NM2T", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "Doctor Sam", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "This is the first digital camera that I have bought.  All I have to say is that this is one of the smartest buys I have ever made. The photo quality is absolutely impeccable. The 2 in. LCD is a very high resolution.  AutoFocus, start-up, and shot-to-shot times are all quicker then possibly anyone would need. I recommend buying this camera in conjunction with a Canon PIXMA photo printer in which case you can get a $70 mail-in rebate from Canon... so if you buy a Canon PIXMA iP3000 printer from amazon you basically will only be paying 10 bucks for it.  Overall I highly recommend this wonderful camera to all classes of photographers... from beginners to experts.  I never expected so much could be packed into such a small device.P.S. Macro Mode in the SD400 IS ABSOLUTELY AWESOME!!!!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "SUPER CAMERA!", "unixReviewTime": 1118361600, "reviewTime": "06 10, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AJYDC7UP4K4KE", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "eee", "helpful": [29, 31], "reviewText": "I agree with all of the positive remarks from others but I have A HUGE Suggestion for the Canon engineers and designers working on the next batch of models:ADOPT THE IDEA OF A DOCKING STATION FOR BATTERY CHARGING AND IMAGE TRANSFER!-I got so used to this when using a Casio EX-Z55 that it should be the way to go for ALL digital cameras sold with rechargable batteries.-In case no one has noticed, that flimsy plastic trap door on this Canon SD400 (and all other SD models) that holds the battery and the SD memory is absurdly destined to break one day. I am not one of those \"bull in china shop\" rough fast rippers that seem to break everything, BUT, I have to use the utmost tedious care when opening it to recharge the battery or if I want to use my card reader to quickly view the images without moving them to my PC's hard drive.-I expect Canon to want a minimum of $100 to replace the battery door if it breaks.  I paid $219 plus tax for the whole camera.-Do it Canon! steal the concept like Nikon, HP, and Casio have done with the innovative Kodak docking station idea.  (The chrome plastic pressure fit cover for the USB cable is fragile also!)", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great for tiny camera: bring on a dock next time !", "unixReviewTime": 1132272000, "reviewTime": "11 18, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1XW81HK3LZU8R", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "Eric Falsken", "helpful": [22, 24], "reviewText": "No other camera can come close on the color accuracy and quality in this price range. This just has to be the best pocket-sized camera on the market. I tested Everything, and the only other camera that caught my eye was a larger Kodak (Z/DX)7590, but that one is much larger. Armed with a large SD card (gotta love those things better than CF) and a LI battery (too bad they make you buy them extra), this just has to be an unbeatable camera in it's class.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Wonderful, recommend to everyone", "unixReviewTime": 1114905600, "reviewTime": "05 1, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2FMDQ8XS2R61Y", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "Film Reviewer", "helpful": [23, 23], "reviewText": "The SD400 is a breakthrough in technology by canon, making a very small camera perform like a larger one.  Besides having 5 megapixels, the camera has one of the best movie modes in the business.  I have seen a lot of movie modes by Fuji, Sony, and others.  Canon has the best, hands down.  The reason is how they compress the movies.  Canon has the least compression (movies must be compressed from a large file to a smaller one to fit on the SD card.) The new Digic II processor assists the movie mode to a full 30 frames/sec.  Also a fast start up time of just over a second and uninterrupted 2.1 frame per second shooting.The only camera in the Canon line that has a better movie modeis the new S2IS camera.  This one also gives you stereo sound.  However, it is a much larger camera.  The thing that appeals to me about the SD400 is that you can carry it anywhere and it will be there to get the shot.  Either still picture or movies.There is a new trend of smaller cameras such as the SD400, the Sony T series, and Casio having much larger LCD screens.  These screens are 2\" or larger.  With a larger LCD, you must also take care of your camera better.  With the older cameras, the screen was small, and less likely to get damaged.  Here are some tips that should keep your SD400 from ever having a cracked screen, or for that matter any of the newer cameras from Sony, Casio, Fuji, etc. that have larger LCD screens.  (You can damage any LCD screen regardless of brand).[1] Do not place camera in with sharp objects like keys, lipstick holders, or any metal objects.  I would suggest this even if you have the camera in a thin case, as the thin case is still no protection from sharp objects that can exert a lot of pinpoint pressure.[2] If you carry it in your pocket, you should not do it in tight pants, and do not sit on the camera!  I recommend not carrying it in your pants pocket (too easy to bump into hard objects). I never have and never had a problem.  If you feel the need to carry it in your pants, carry it so the LCD is NOT on the outside and vulnerable. The older models were too thick to fit in your pocket. I think you are seeing a lot more people improperly carry this camera because of its thin size.[3] The best bet would be a well padded case (not a thin one).Padding is the key here. Pamper your new camera.[4] Do not drop camera.  Always put the strap around your arm when taking your camera out of the case. That way you never will drop it.  Any digital camera will have a high probability of damage if you drop it. These are delicate electronic devices and need to be treated as such.[5] Do not leave your camera in your car.  Extreme heat or extreme cold is very bad for any electronic device with an LCD screen.  The SD400 is no exception.There is a silent majority of SD400 owners out there that are enjoying the camera, but have not left reviews. I would like to hear from them.  Let people know of your success with the camera and you can even post images here that you have taken.  Respect the camera, and it will give you a long life.Update: Just went on a trip to Europe.  Two girls on the trip had the sd400 camera.  They did have cases for their cameras, but one did not even have a strap on their camera.  Both cameras survived the trip with no problems.  They even took the cameras to the beach, and up mountains, and on several boats.  They did not put the camera in unprotected pockets.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "SD400 - a Fantastic Digital Camera", "unixReviewTime": 1119657600, "reviewTime": "06 25, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1EKSETIBS9ETQ", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "", "helpful": [12, 14], "reviewText": "While this camera is almost perfect in term of design and features, the image quality is its Achilles heel.  This is my fourth digital cameras of all sizes and has the easiest menu to navigate and select through.  Fast start up time is a great for though prefect moment.  I love the little metal compact design and feel.  Maybe the new Casio Exilim EX-S500 is sexier.  The falling price makes this camera a great value, since the newer Canon sd450 and sd430 are coming out.My beef with this camera is the burry images.  People say you can compare apple to orange with pocket digital camera to larger camera.  But what is the point if you only get perfect image with outdoor shot with a lot of sunlight.  Living in Seattle's cloudy fall and winter season, 1/3 to  the images are blurry.  Wow, no action mode means this little boy has a slow shutter speed.  So taking pictures off a moving bus or car on a road trip is a joke.  Anybody running too fast becomes blurry vision.  Indoor shot with a flash is fine.  Canon's images have the least amount of noise and pixilation of any brand.  The image is very detail in perfect situation.  For the best image quality for a pocket digit digital cameras out there now are the Fuji film FinePix Z1 and Casio Exilim EX-Z750.Camera that I owned or used.Best image, true color, sharpness, detail, under $500 - Panasonic FZ15 (large w/ 12x optical and image stabilizer)Best color saturation, vibrant color, indoor shot/ night shot, features- Sony DSC-F717 (new CyperShot lack sharpness)Cool factor, user friendly, little noise, blurriest- Canon SD400.Nikon Coolpix is below average and Olympus is fine but has robust body design.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Not Perfect", "unixReviewTime": 1131148800, "reviewTime": "11 5, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3TL64H6FMF4EM", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "J. Haindel \"Jay\"", "helpful": [26, 27], "reviewText": "My wife and I purchased each a Canon Camera at the same time so I did a direct comparison between the two.  My camera is the PowerShot A610.  Hers is the SD400.  The SD400 has it all over the A610 in quality of construction.  It is stainless steel and all of the controls are highly refined.  The little camera reeks quality construction whereas the 610 is of average quality.  The 400 has much quieter operation noises.  You can hardly hear any of the mechanisms while they are working.  The compact size is a major plus!  The simplicity of the controls is also better and more accessible although it has less control features. (no manual control except 2 stop exposure correction for back lighting)  It's close up flash is better controlled as the A610 washes out when closer than 18\".  The auto focus is usually right on. The picture quality is very good.The down side:  The picture quality is not quite on par with the A610.  It does not have as good of exposure control.  Some pictures are too dark or too light depending on the lighting conditions. Some faces will wash out a little if the lighting is not well controlled. The flash is not as powerful, usually good for about 14'.It has much more low light level noise.  This is due to the size of the CCD which is smaller and must compact the same amount ofpixels on a smaller area which, I understand, is the reason for  noise.My wife loves the camera and, I must admit, we usually take it along with us because of it's small size and leave the A610 home because it is more bulky.I don't think you will be disappointed in the little camera, but it does have some picture quality/exposure deficits as compared to the A610.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "SD400 vs A610", "unixReviewTime": 1135209600, "reviewTime": "12 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2DZ0QRHRXIE5V", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "J. Peterson", "helpful": [26, 29], "reviewText": "After owning an original S100 Digital Elph for several years, I finally decided to upgrade to the SD400, expecting big improvements. After several months with the SD400, I have concluded that it was a waste of money because I have yet to realize any true advantages over the S100, and there are even a few drawbacks!What's definitely better:* USB 2.0. Much faster downloads that before. Be sure you connect to a USB 2.0 port, though.* Movie mode. Nice if you want something besides a still.What's better, perhaps:* Higher resolution (5.0 megapixels vs 2.1). But except for enlargements, I am not finding much benefit to this, and naturally the file sizes are bigger. I know that I can shoot at lower resolution, but then what's the point?* Smaller (only half as thick). This is nice, but not compelling. It doesn't fit anywhere that the S100 wouldn't.* Much larger display. I like it, but I'm concerned about its fragility. The old S100 had a smaller display but could be treated roughly without worry.What's not improved:* In automatic mode, you STILL cannot choose to force the flash to be used; you still only have the choices of auto flash or no flash. Has Canon never heard of fill flash? You have to go to manual mode to select this feature, which I find annoying.What's worse:* Annoying and fragile plastic lid over the USB connector. This thing isn't going to last long.* And the thing that I REALLY don't like about the SD400: blurry pictures. A significant number of the pictures that I have taken have been blurry for one reason or another, but mostly due to camera's choice of too low of a shutter speed. If you select the option of \"no flash\" this problem is particularly likely. Supposedly there is a \"camera shake\" warning indicator to help prevent this, but good luck seeing it when you need it. At a minimum, Canon needs to provide an option to prevent pictures or force flash if it computes the need for a shutter speed that is below a reasonable hand-held limit, which I have always taken to be 1/60 sec.So even after purchasing the SD400, I'm still using my old S100 much of the time, mostly because it is much more rugged, and also because I have never had blurred picture with it.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Not an improvement over the original Digital ELPH", "unixReviewTime": 1124582400, "reviewTime": "08 21, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3HHQXOMMY99Q9", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "Larry  H in Austin", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "Same story as the other reviews: fantastic camera. It is about the size of a pack of cards, or smaller; IMO, this is about as small as most people would want. Pictures are excellent. Video is excellent.I disagree with another review, in which it was stated that you cannot zoom while video recording; my SD400 can zoom while video recording just fine. However, the zoom control is pretty loud in the video clip.For me, this camera eliminates the need for a separate video camera. I have a 1-gigabyte SD card, which is enough for more than 8 minutes of video. If you want to spice up your DVD slide shows with occational video clips, as I do, this is perfect.Battery life seems to be greatly improved over the older digital elph model I owned. IMO, most people would never exhaust their battery in a full day picture taking. Recharge takes only 90 minutes.Camera menus are simple and easy to navigate; a pretty big improvement over my old elph.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "No complaints - great camera", "unixReviewTime": 1118793600, "reviewTime": "06 15, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AJSSCAO4RSU78", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "Mark Bozeman \"Amazon Fanboy\"", "helpful": [12, 13], "reviewText": "Before this camera I was shooting with a Nikon 5200, which was substantially larger.  In comparison this takes sharper, more accurate images, fits in my pocket as comfortably as my cell phone, and has more intuitive menus.  I took this on a vacation to Africa, it shot very sharp wildlife photos and was unscathed sitting in my pocket for days on end, sometimes in high temperatures.  I have used its zoom quite a bit, and it takes very sharp pictures across its 3x optical, and very acceptable quality up to about 8x (combined digital and optical), but beyond 8x and up to the max 12x (3x optical * 4x digital), the quality is almost unusable.  So it wasn't the best for distance photography, but very acceptable.  There is minor purple fringing as with all point and shoots, but not at all noticeable on an any print 5x7 or less.  And negligible even at 8-10 at its worst.While you will probably not get the quality of photo that you will get with a DSLR, that is not what this product even pretends to offer.  It is a fantastic point and shoot, super small, and compared to others that I've seen it takes by far the best pictures (great contrast, colors, and sharpness).  Also, its super super fast, unlike my previous Nikon 5200, which I missed quite a few shots with.For its size, picture quality, and functionality, it is best in its class.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Perfect Point & Shoot", "unixReviewTime": 1121212800, "reviewTime": "07 13, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3Q4TYJVAM4IRM", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "Omar Siddique", "helpful": [48, 49], "reviewText": "Whenever a new version of a favorite product is released, I always worry that it won't be as good as the last, that I'll be disappointed in some way.  The SD400 is the third Canon ELPH I've owned, and it does not disappoint.As a long time user, I was extremely pleased that not only did the SD400 improve upon my last Canon (S400), it also didn't change or remove any of the functionality that I had grown accustomed to using.Plenty of reviews here praise this camera in general terms, so I will instead compare major changes compared with the Canon S400/410.  Some are subtle, others more obvious.* Smaller and lighter than the S400* A larger LCD than the S400.* USB 2.0 (notably faster) instead of the USB 1.1 in the S400.* 5MP instead of 4MP.* Digic2 instead of Digic (only the SD cameras and SLRs have it at this time).* Shoots video at double the resolution (640x480) steadily until memory card is full.* The default version of ZoomBrowser software (5.x) is much improved from the older versions -- faster and smoother to use, with better features to control the camera.  The new version can be downloaded for older cameras.* Same metal casing, but a small plastic hinge flap covers the output ports now, instead of a rubber one.* Uses SD memory cards instead of CF1.  These can be notably faster than CF1.* The physical controls are slightly more closely packed together, but I had no trouble with pressing the wrong ones by accident or anything like that.  If anything, the small controls are better organized than previously.  I always used to rotate the S400's dial into the wrong mode, which has not been a problem with the new layout which uses a slider switch and software menus.* Far more shooting modes (such as portrait, pets&children;, night snapshot, etc), and better control over focus method, flash metering, exposure metering, etc.  It's not a manual SLR, but it gets as close as pocket digital camera can.* Much faster feeling.  Shooting a photo and having it stored to my \"ultra\" (high speed) SD memory card seems to take less than half the time it used to with the S400.Highly recommended, no complaints at all.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "SD400 only improves the Elph series", "unixReviewTime": 1117929600, "reviewTime": "06 5, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1F92EK0MUNOVR", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "Pecos Bill", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "Disclaimer:I've never owned a camera of nearly this quality before, so I don't have much basis for comparison.  I can't tell you if this is better than some similar camera, since I haven't used any others.That said, I'm really liking this camera.Out of the box, it's very easy to figure out how to point-and-shoot and use basic functions with all possible adjustments set to the default \"automatic\" setting.  After that, you'll have to hit up the manual.  Due to the compact design, there's no room for a verbose menu system, so everything is icon-based.  To figure out how to access more advanced features, you're going to have to reference the manual.The manual is quite comprehensive, though, and handily indexed so I've been able to find what I wanted without much trouble.  The manual also does a reasonable job of explaining not just how to adjust the settings, but what the different settings mean, e.g., \"ISO 50\" vs \"ISO 400\".  It tells you how to change it and a brief explanation of why different settings may be desired.The picture resolution is quite spectacular.  In fact, if you're just looking to take casual pictures to send to family members over the internet or a camera to take standard-sized photos with, you could certainly get away with a cheaper camera.  This camera takes pictures of sufficient resolution to print as a small poster!  (Or a very large glossy print.)The video mode is quite nice as well.  With a 1 GB memory card, you can record over 15 minutes of video at maximum quality, or over 45 minutes of video at a medium quality (or over 2 hours of video at lowest quality).  The video also includes sound, though I have doubts as to the quality of the built in microphone.The built-in flash is great and it has a red-eye reducer.  The optical + digital zoom is fairly impressive and there other other features such as rapid-fire picture snapping (where you hold down the button as the camera clicks away) and macro mode (allowing you to take a magnified shot of something really close to the lens).Transferring data to your computer is also quite simple, with the included connections and software.  You can also, of course, review stored images using the camera itself and erase whatever you want from there.As the camera only comes with a very tiny memory card, I advise getting a bigger memory card and an extra battery when you buy this camera.  I got the 1 GB card and can honostly say it's more space than I could ever possibly want.  1 GB holds hundreds of top quality pictures -- or almost 2000 pictures at 1600x1200 resolution!There are cameras that take even higher resolution pictures than this one, but unless you know for a fact that you want to use your camera to print large posters, you truely don't need more than 5 megapixels.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Feature Rich and Easy to Use(*)", "unixReviewTime": 1128902400, "reviewTime": "10 10, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3MBDBKB5PJJOS", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "Peter V. Cannice \"Peter Vincent Cannice of Sc...", "helpful": [40, 41], "reviewText": "The Canon Powershot really sizzles and outperforms almost ALL other Competitors in the 5MP Digital Arena! I have always been interested in Canon products, especially the optics on their Digital and SLR cameras. The Canon Powershot SD400 Digital Elph has outperformed ALL of the previous cameras that I have owned. There are many cameras available with 5 megapixels or even more. It's important to pay attention to the quality of the camera in a number of different areas and NOT to just focus on the number of megapixels a camera has.I purchased this camera when it first came out-probably one of the first off the shelf. I should have waited for all of the rebate offers and sales, however I wanted to replace my previous ELPH and pass it on to a nephew so I could get the newest Canon Digital Camera. I had read all of the reviews online and in periodicals that I like to read. It was unanimously agreed upon that this camera really packed a true bang for the buck!I am a photographer and use typical SLR and Medium Format Cameras for the most professional work. I've incorporated digital photography for moments when I don't have the time to put the whole camera outfit together or when I am traveling and don't want to carry a heavy camera, lens, flash, etc. Recently I put the Canon to the test. I was called upon to photograph a Canadian Competition Bicycling team, from Toronto, that was training in sunny Arizona. The photo shoot went very well and I was comfortable that the photos would turn out great. In addition to taking my typical \"35mm Film\" photographs, I chose to use my Canon Powershot SD400 to see how it would compare.I developed all of the 35mm photographs and had prints made for all members of the racing team. After I finished this 4 day process, everything from taking the photos to developing the negatives and finally making prints of the best photos, I turned to my new ELPH and used my laptop computer to view the pictures. I was totally astounded by the incredible performance of this small but mighty camera. I decided to take it another step higher and took my Memory Card to a Kinko's Copy Center and had enlargements made-everything from 5 x 7's to 8 x 10's.The colors were brilliant and it was impossible for me to see any differences in quality between the original small prints and the 5 x 7's and 8 x 10's! As a semi-professional photographer, like so many others, I assumed that I would see a difference once the digital photos were enlarged. Not the case with this awesome digital Canon Powershot SD400 5MP Elph Camera!I hung 2 prints on the wall, both 8 x 10's from my 35mm SLR Camera, and then placed the digital 8 x 10's from Kinko's just below them. It would take a very, very professional eye, with a very, very powerful magnifier, to discern any differences in quality. I've always been impressed with the Canon Digital Cameras that I have owned, but this 5 megapixel Elph is a true gem and the best digital camera I have ever owned. I ended up with 4 photos on the wall, that still remain there, as I enjoy showing clients the power of a high quality digital camera.I hope this review offers some assistance to you. There are so many technicals points that I could have discussed with you, however I wanted to present an honest review as a result of a true experience I had with this incredible camera. There are so many to choose from, so many sales and specials and rebates, etc. If you're looking for a great camera that will guarantee you performance that even a professional would expect in a camera-then the Canon Powershot SD400 is the camera for you.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Canon Elph Shines Again-Now With 3x Zoom & Large 2.0\" LCD & More", "unixReviewTime": 1128038400, "reviewTime": "09 30, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2ECLEVCOXIXZ4", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "Photographer \"Photographer\"", "helpful": [21, 26], "reviewText": "The Canon S400, S410 and S500 have all had serious reliability problems.  Read the reviews on this website and you will see that many customers have had a mysterious 'memory error' and/or the lens jamming (E18 error).  These problems have shown up at about 18 months on all of these models. [...]", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Still has reliability problems", "unixReviewTime": 1123286400, "reviewTime": "08 6, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3EB07DS19UGCR", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "P. Zeissig \"pzeissig\"", "helpful": [34, 37], "reviewText": "I am not going to write a long review since the others have done an excellent job with that.I just want to point out that with this camera you don't really need a handycam video camera anymore since it takes very good videos with sound at 640x480 resolution at 30 frames per second.  Using Windows Movie Maker you can create your own movies and email them in compressed format to your friends.  That is much more versatile than working with a Handycam.The main drawback on the video function is that you can't zoom while filming.  So I suggest taking several clips and stitching them together later with Windows Movie Maker.  With that software a 1 minute video is only 5 MB in wmv format (or whatever size you want), so it can be easily emailed alongside your pictures.I suggest getting a 1 GB SD Card with it if you plan on taking lots of movies.  They really have come down in price.  Make sure you get a \"high speed card\" (45x or faster).  Compared to similar Sony cameras, the Canon uses much cheaper non proprietary SD memory and has a viewfinder to save batteries.This camera is so small that you can carry it with you at all times taking pictures and video anywhere you go.  What good is a camera if you don't have it with you when the perfect Kodak moment is in front of you?", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Dual purpose camera for pictures and videos", "unixReviewTime": 1116720000, "reviewTime": "05 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A231WM2Z2JL0U3", "asin": "B0007TJ5OG", "reviewerName": "Rheumor", "helpful": [19, 20], "reviewText": "I have been buying digital cameras from the beginning, starting with some brands that are now extinct and some cameras that offered less than 1 megapixel resolution. My most recent acquisition was a Pentax Optio SV which I panned in a review posted here on Amazon.Anyway, Canon is the benchmark for all other digital cameras. This model offers excellent, sturdy build (it was dropped onto a stone floor when it was only a few days old....even though it made a pretty bad sound, it wasn't dinged or scratched. I'm not sure how that can be, but it is a fact) and very good visual appeal. The size and weight are perfect. It is small enough for a purse or even a pocket, but not so small that it is hard to grasp while shooting.The LCD screen is the best I've used; 2 inches and readable even in bright sunlight. The optical viewfinder (I just don't like cameras that make you rely upon the LCD only for framing images; sometimes I feel I need to frame an image the old fashioned way) is tiny but very bright and also features all of the menu items you select from setup (or none if you prefer).The 3X optical zoom is smooth and fast and in most cases that's enough zoom power, though I did buy that Optio in search of even more power. For the record, pay no attention to digital zooms. They are computer trickery that enlarges the central part of your image at the expense of image resolution. For example, a 2X digital zoom effect exactly halves your resolution, making such images often unfit for printing. Talking about resolution and printing, the 5 megapixels available on this model allows for high quality 11\" x 14\" prints. The camera is also capable of functioning as a camcorder in a pinch, offering full motion (60 FPS) video and sound limited only by the size of your memory card.The controls of the SD400 are simple and intuitive and the menus have evolved nicely, making it much easier than it was with my S200 to navigate and adjust things. That said, the SD400 is part of a class of cameras designed mostly for automatic users; if you crave control, you're probably not shopping for this type of digicam.I find the Canon colors to be about the truest, though performance in that area is degraded when using the flash. Also, \"red eye\" is a problem, though newer software programs like Microsoft's PictureIt! Photo Premium 9 have finally made red eye fixes really easy.While I agree that the Canon's need for a proprietary battery is a pain, I am satisfied with the battery life--about 140 shots with the LCD on and the flash not in use--and I like the very compact charger included with the camera. To be on the safe side, I ordered another battery here on Amazon (a generic that is not too expensive and works identically to the branded one that came in the box).Of course the included 32 meg SD memory card is too small to be useful, but that is the case with every single digital camera I've bought. No matter, these cards are reasonably priced (though not quite as cheap as the larger CompactFlash format) and now come in gargantuan sizes if you like. I paid about $50 for a 512 MB Ultra II card that will hold hundreds of images.Lastly, I want to commend the new Digic II processor in the SD400. It is ready to shoot in about one second after it is powered up, and there is almost no shutter lag at all. Recovery time for a second shot is similarly brief. Shutter lag is a big factor when selecting a digicam and this one jumps that hurdle very nicely.All told, I'd give the SD400 a \"best in class\" ribbon.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "You want this camera.", "unixReviewTime": 1120435200, "reviewTime": "07 4, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1YMGO5KQ33EWR", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "abarak", "helpful": [45, 48], "reviewText": "(also posted for the Canon version)I have been using the lens with my Nikon D70 for over a year, and I am very happy with it. I use the lens for most of my day to day shooting.(+) 10mm focal length - Yee haa! One year after, and I still can't get the smirk off my face. Even with the accompanied pincushion distorsion (see below) the 10mm focal length is simply a joy (Nikon's zoom only goes as wide as 12mm, 12 is noticable narrower than 10).(+) Optical quality - is very good as far as I can judge. There is a pretty noticeable pincushion distorion at the 10mm end, but I understand all ultra-wide zooms suffer from the same phenomena. The distorsion at 12mm focal length is far less noticable.(+) Build quality - no complaints. except for this lens I also own Sigma's 30mm f/1.4 lens (which has disappointing optical performance IMO). 30mm's optical issues aside, - both feel solid and stable, no loose rings or levers or anything like that. Sigma does an excellent job here.(+) HSM focusing works very well, my guess is that Nikon would be as good or perhaps slightly better. One of the other non-Nikon alternative uses the screwdriver blade type auto focus rather than ultrasonic motor (the built it ultrasonic AF is way nicer to use).All the negatives or 'cons' if you will, are right there in the data sheet, no unpleasent surprises whatsoever. The lens is big and heavy but so is the competition (Nikon). I wish it could go a little further to say 22mm or 25mm, but again - I knew it won't, before I bought it. As a Nikon owner I don't really think there a significantly better choice, if you own a Canon DSLR body though, then the EF-S 10-22mm f/3.5-4.5 USM lens may be a better choice.5 start with no hesitation, no other DSLR lens I know gives so much value for the money! (except, perhaps, for that 10-22 canon lens, which is the forbidden fruit for us Nikonians).", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "An awesome lens", "unixReviewTime": 1165017600, "reviewTime": "12 2, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A31ICLWQ9CSHRS", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "Al Swanson", "helpful": [16, 17], "reviewText": "First, this is not my first UWA lens. When it comes to ultra-wides, I've had my share. From the Tokina 11-16/2.8 (sold cause the range was too limited), two copies (one Nikon, one Canon) of the Tokina 12-24/4 and the Tokina 10-17 fisheye, I've tried most of them out there. (Sorry, I'll not spend a dime on a EF-S lens again. Thus, I've never had the cheapo Canon 10-22)This is my replacement to the motorless Nikon-mount Tokina 12-24/4 (version 1 - version 2 has an internal focus motor). I was very skeptical of this lens for a number of reasons. Sigma has had troubles lately, I'm not a fan of variable aperture lenses and it's a \"third party\" lens. I've owned lots of them, but I usually end up being happier with Canon or Nikon lenses. As this does replace one of the top-rated (and personal fav of mine) 12-24, it has a lot to live up to. It doesn't disappoint.Honestly, you're spending about half (or less) than any Nikon branded lens in the range (and right now - that would be one: 10-24). So expecting perfection or even close is certainly a path to unhappiness. I expected to send it back - but I haven't.Pros: 10mm on the short end. Fixable distortion. Reasonable CA. You get good colors and contrast. Fast focus, given the focal length.Cons: CA, soft at the edges.Really, for the money and for the way that most of us print, you'll find little, if any, difference between this and any other UWA. Nope, it doesn't have a fixed 2.8 - so if isolating your subject is important - pick the Tokina 11-16. Although I'm not sure that's the focus of this type of lens, anyway.Anyone who will be really unhappy with this lens will fall into two camps: pixel-peepers and pros. Pros, most likely, won't be shooting DX anyway. Pixel-peepers are seldom, if ever, really happy. Everyone else is going to find what most reviewers say, it's a great lens. Had I not seen the edge-to-edge sharpness of the 11-16 or incredible colors of the 12-24, I probably couldn't find fault with it either.Buy it, use it, love it. Keep it off brick walls and use something else for your 20\"x30\" posters and you'll find it's a keeper.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "It's good - for what it is", "unixReviewTime": 1246320000, "reviewTime": "06 30, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A2NOIWPJDD7WIQ", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer", "helpful": [22, 28], "reviewText": "I've been using the Sigma 10-20mm about twice or three times a month and I am very pleased. At such a wide angle, you will most like need to \"de-fish\" your final shot which can be remedied with CS2 or some other image processing software. At 10-20mm, the range is almost too wide, but after further usage, I got used to it. I'm very accustomed to a 12-24mm range and the 10-20mm took a lot of getting used to. The only drawbacks I know of in using this lens is that it is really prone to flare (despite the marketing by Sigma stating that the new lens coating diminishes flare) and the biggest aperture is f/4 which is variable pending on the focal length. It is not a fixed aperture lens. I also find that this lens is at it's sharpest around f/8-f/11 and I wouldn't go beyond that because I started noticing the degrading of image quality at very small apertures with this lens. But other than that, I've been pretty satisfied for the price I paid for this ultra wide angle lens. I still would prefer Nikon's 12-24mm, but I'm not willing to shell out that much money on a wide angle lens. Sigma's price for their 10-20mm is acceptable.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Ultra Wide and Fantastic for Landscape Photography", "unixReviewTime": 1170115200, "reviewTime": "01 30, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2F312RWLWLXMM", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "Anthony's Lawn Care \"Anthony Skorochod\"", "helpful": [24, 24], "reviewText": "This is my new favorite lens!  This lens is sharp at all apertures and takes stunning photos.  10mm is super-fun and I'm having a great time taking wide angle shots.  I find that this lens is on my camera most of the time now.  Keep in mind, this lens is designed for cameras with a crop-factor- so Canon 5D owners need to look elsewhere.Also, if you plan on using a flash (430EX/580EX) the use of the built in diffuser panel is a must.  If not, the edges of your pictures will be under exposed.  With the use of my 430EX (diffuser panel deployed), I'm able to take stunning super-wide angle flash shots.  Outside/non-flash, color-reproduction is excellent.The built of this lens is \"sturdy.\"  It looks and feels like a mini tank.  It is an EX series lens, so it has the durable black coating which is found on it's big brother- the Sigma 70-200 (another lens which I own and highly reccomend).I have purchased other lenses from Sigma's other third-party competitor and have been let down.  I can't be happier with either of my Sigma lenses.I highly reccomend this lens.  It is my new favorite and is almost ALWAYS on my camera.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Sigma 10-20mm", "unixReviewTime": 1156032000, "reviewTime": "08 20, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A141R9U90XEMCG", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "Chris Lang", "helpful": [24, 31], "reviewText": "I replaced my 19-35mm lens with this on my digital rebel and, boy, it's nice to be back into wide angle.  For the price, it's a great lens (good build quality and focus-ability).  I'm not a lens expert, so I can't really comment on the image quality other than: it's great to me.  It comes with a nice lens pouch too (even though I never use them).  A couple minor issues: 1) I have the wasia hack and a couple of the settings cause the autofocus and aperture readout to non-function (I thought it was defective until I disabled the hack settings).  2) I wish the distance markings were in smaller increments (not a big deal though, since the autofocus works well).  These two things are the only reason that I didn't give it 5 stars.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "finally....a wide angle lens", "unixReviewTime": 1136505600, "reviewTime": "01 6, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3A53X9NSO3M4Z", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "Claudio D'Amato", "helpful": [16, 16], "reviewText": "After shooting a few months with the kit lens (18-55), I found myself shooting at the wider range more often than not, with the exception of the occasional portrait. So I got rid of the kit lens, got myself a 50mm prime (the f1/4 from Canon: a masterpiece), and a wide-angle zoom for landscapes.I quickly found and bought the Sigma. Two months later, I couldn't be happier. It shoots where no other lens could shoot. Everyone knows that \"10mm is wide\", but few realize just how wide it is until they see it. Our eyes see in the 40-50mm range, so we're not used to perceiving such a wide field. When you look through this lens, you see pictures that you didn't even know were there.The glass quality is excellent, obviously not up to Canon L standards, but that was never the purpose. The pictures are SHARP and clear, and colors are excellent (tints tend slightly toward the warmer end when compared to Canon's 10-22mm; I like that, personally, but YMMV).Subjects are obviously deformed when shot up close at 10mm, but know what you're doing and that becomes a great tool for artistic pictures! You can shoot a 5'5\" person head to toes from less than 3 feet away. Also, I am happy to report that at 20mm there is NO distortion whatever, regardless of the subject's distance.The only problem I can see right now with this lens is a rainbow effect when shooting at 10mm in direct sunlight. The hood helps some, but you'll still get the rainbow in some pictures. See my pic in the customer image section. It's not a huge deal (sometimes it's actually a neat effect), and it's happened to me only once out of 800+ pictures taken, but know what you're getting.Overall, this is THE wide-angle zoom to get if you're halfway serious about landscape photography, although the Sigma also works great in indoors with limited room to shoot.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great and affordable wide angle!", "unixReviewTime": 1211241600, "reviewTime": "05 20, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A9D7AJLR1WM8K", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "C. Zimmerman \"train nut, shutter bug, compute...", "helpful": [19, 19], "reviewText": "I didn't plan to buy this and I gave it lots of thought.  I tend to love longer lenses and just prefer to shoot as a fly on the wall.  I've always thought I could just \"zoom out\" with my feet as needed.  Then with a few small shooting locations (usually brides getting ready in small rooms) I thought it could be useful.  WOW, did I fall in love with this lens.  Immediately I found myself archiving walls of photos I have on display - something I couldn't fit in before.  Suddenly a whole room would come to life in the camera - fantastic.I've always been one to purposely shoot a little wider than I felt I needed to crop later, and now that idea is taken to the next level since I can actually really fit it alllllll in.If you're only shooting down to 18mm on your nikon DSLR, this lens will rock your world.Since I got this lens it has lived on my nikon body, and has made me ponder picking up another nikon body just to be sure I have this at hand at all times.  BTW, my normal lens is the 18-200vr, which is still a great \"walking around\" lens.Build quality is great.  Nice to have a focus meter, and the m/a focus is something I've come to expect, and this one works great.  Good pro metal mount that locks on nicely.  About the only gripe I have is that the zoom ring is very close to the body and I find myself occasionally running a finger into the built-in flash overhang from the body.  Not a biggie, however.  I also would have liked a slightly faster f-stop on a lens of this cost, but with higher ISO being rendered much better it is becoming less and less of a wory.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "great lens, good glass", "unixReviewTime": 1185667200, "reviewTime": "07 29, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A21BMX5GT45BG9", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "Damien Margo", "helpful": [26, 31], "reviewText": "I am shocked about this lens. After many visits to the camera store, hours of internet research, and dozens of questions to professionals I bought this lens from Amazon. No local dealers bothered to carry it so once again the sale went to the internet.During my research it became obvious that one of the major limitations of many new DLSR's is a smaller overall field of view when compared to a traditional film based SLR using the same basic lens. Without going into the \"why\" the bottom line is my Nikon D40X's stock 18-55 cannot capture as wide a shot as I want.Terminology becomes an issue when trying to explain this lens to an amateur, or the person who might be involved with your new 500 dollar purchase. The word \"wide\" has new meaning these days when applied to TV's and monitors, so people are confused when you try to tell them about a lens that is \"wide\". This is significant because so many new D40X buyers, for example, are jumping into SLR for the first time and have no clue about lenses. These are the people who probably have no idea what they are missing.The overall focus on lenses gets further confusing for amateurs because of all the hype about \"zoom\", and when kits like the D40X give you an extra zoom but no wide lens. Zoom is like one of those numbers consumers make sure to ask about before they make their purchase. While zoom photography is cool, I feel the magic of wide-angle photography is a well kept secret. Consumers would be well served to be asking about \"wide\" instead, and start walking the camera up closer to their subject. You'll see why later.Doing research became even harder when I began to read about the Nikkor 12-24 and new 14 wide angle lenses. At $1000 and $1700 I began to feel like my dream would never come true. Then I held the new 14mm at the camera store, attached to a D60. It is a monster in every way. After looking at some dinky conversion lenses I was ready to give up. The amazing reviews of the new Nikon wide-angle lenses left me feeling it might be years away.That's when I found the Sigma 10-20, roughly 5 lenses later. The solid 5 star reviews combined with under-$500 price tag got me looking, and then the test shots. $20 of overnight shipping later I must say this is a product that should come with the camera. All new consumers should be made aware of what this thing can do. It should be bundled or at least sold beside these cameras, not the total mystery it seems to be. This wide angle lens should go into the hands of amateurs and professionals alike. It could be the factor that keeps new people into the hobby when their zoom shots are all messed up. Simply put this lens allows your camera to better match what you see with your eyes. The creative possibilities of a wider field of view should not be underestimated. It could sell more cameras, so it seems the competition should be looking up to Sigma, especially at this price tag. Have fun!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "This Should Come With Your Camera", "unixReviewTime": 1209081600, "reviewTime": "04 25, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A344VCIOO3EG21", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "Daniel Marley", "helpful": [35, 37], "reviewText": "10mm for the Sigma versus 12mm for the Nikon, and it costs around half as much. Done deal.HSM is great for focusing, and works on my D40 which only supports AF-S type lenses. 5.6 on the narrow end is unfortunate, but you don't buy this lens to shoot at 20mm. You can handhold wide-angles at slower shutter speeds anyways. The lens cap is once again Sigma end-pinch, which I quickly replaced with a Nikon center-pinch, a practice I've begun with all my Sigmas. Be aware that there are optical distortions in most wide-angle lenses, but most of the time they aren't much of an issue. When they are, an application like PTLens does a great job of fixing it up.I've really become a fan of Sigma lenses, they seem to offer such a great value. I'm sure the Nikon is probably slightly sharper, but I don't see a noticeable difference. I can see the difference between 10mm and 12mm, though, along with the over $400 difference.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "WIDE!", "unixReviewTime": 1171756800, "reviewTime": "02 18, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1S4R6CZB4566C", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "D. Burbank", "helpful": [42, 46], "reviewText": "Fantastic Lens. I received my Sigma 10-20mm f/4-5.6 EX DC HSM Lens from Amazon yesterday. I did a lot of research prior to buying this lens. My primary concern was that the lens might be a bit too wide and lead to too much distortion. I was wrong. The lens offers incredible quality from 10mm to 20mm. It's quiet, focuses quickly and feels rock solid. So far, I'm very satisfied.Canon Digital Rebel XTi 10.1MP Digital SLRSigma 10-20mm f/4-5.6 EX DC HSM LensCanon EF 28-105mm f/3.5-4.5 II USM Standard Zoom LensSigma 70-300mm f/4-5.6 DG APO Macro Telephoto LensAll equipment purchased at Amazon.com", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Fantastic Ultra Wide Angle Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1175904000, "reviewTime": "04 7, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2MQ3L9TDFBZ8I", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "D. madden", "helpful": [15, 24], "reviewText": "I got the sigma 10-20 first. It was defective with softness on left side. The replacement I got was soft on the left and the right side. I googled only to discover this was a known issue, but their still out there. If u want to take a chance and keep swapping, be my guest. But by the time your done returning, you'll probably be out of pocket in shippng charges.Sigma lens's are extremely good, i still swear by them. But this one may cost u a lot more than u think.I anted up and got the canon 10-22 and well, it's now glued to the body :)", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "i love sigma but this lens SUCKSSSSSSS", "unixReviewTime": 1208908800, "reviewTime": "04 23, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A2Z7EWJWTK5X4I", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "H. BROADUS \"bulldog\"", "helpful": [54, 62], "reviewText": "A very high quality superwide lens that operates perfectly with my D70.  If indoor or landscape photography are your passions, then this is the gem to get !  Focus is completely sharp anywhere between 10-20mm and the best thing about it......it's priced sooooo right !!!!!  Try it, you'll love it !", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "It's A Winner !", "unixReviewTime": 1131753600, "reviewTime": "11 12, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A4SE6H9MCSUJQ", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "HWS Branson", "helpful": [31, 31], "reviewText": "After purchasing a Nikon D70S with the Sigma 18-200mm lens, I recently purchased a Nikon D200 and a Sigma 10-20mm ultra wide lens. This lens is one of the best I have ever used on any kind of camera. It not only has a good professional look and feel to it, but it works flawlessly with the smoothness of lenses in a much higher price range. Images are clean and crisp, and the autofocus is butter smooth. I paid a bit over $500 for mine and I doubt there is a nickels worth of difference, except in price, between the Sigma brand and a comparable lens bearing the Nikon name. This lens is a keeper for sure!!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Two Thumbs Up!!", "unixReviewTime": 1149638400, "reviewTime": "06 7, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AN7QTAV3PFM3P", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "JFXJ \"jfxj\"", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "This is what I originally had written:I bought this lens after taking the time to compare - and use at home - the Tamron 11-18mm f/4.5-5.6 lens for my Nikon. Very noticable difference between the two. I also compared it with the Tokina 12-24mm.  Again, the Sigma was more compelling to me. It's got a sturdier feel to it and it performs better. Most impressive? The \"HSM\" or \"Hyper-sonic Motor.\" It's incredibly fast and quiet. You don't hear the a motor grinding its way into focus as you do with other lenses (you know who you are!).  Absolutely quiet.  And take a peak at the glass.  It's beautiful.  I haven't had a problem with ghosting at all.  And, I've taken some breathtakingly sharp shots with this lens.  Distortion?  Yes, at the extremes.  But, it's almost to be expected from a lens just a step away from being a fisheye lens.  I consider distortion from this lens as a non-issue. I'd gladly take that in exchange for everything else this lens brings to the table. My expectations have gone up after using this lens. In fact, I was impressed enough to purchase another Sigma: the 30mm F1.4 EX DC HSM.  Another great lens!Here's my update:This lens developed focusing issues a while back.  I'd describe the issues as an inability to lock in on an object and stay locked in.  The auto-focus mechanism, which has always been very quiet, quick and accurate, now seems to bounce around from near to far searching for a focus point before actually finding one.  This causes a delay in getting the shot - and the delay can range from a second to entirely preventing the shot from being taken (during that particular attempted shutter actuation). Even when the lens is directed towards a specific object - with sharp lines - it's as if the lens is being used at night and there is nothing to focus on.  Under those circumstances, the internal focus ring will quickly swing back and forth and then, having found nothing, will stop (as if to prompt the use to try another target.  The warranty has expired (not a 5 year warranty like Nikon) so if I want to fix it, I'll have to foot the bill myself.(I ended up buying the Tokina 16-24mm - very, very nice lens).I'm even more disturbed by this \"quirk\" because I've got two other Sigma lens which have had their own issues as well!  Am I incredibly unlucky?I've got a Sigma 70-200mm f/2.8 DG HSM II Macro Zoom Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras.  Out of nowhere, the auto-focus on the lens completely failed - on my D300 as well as my D90. Couldn't have happened at a worse time for me.  But, fortunately, the lens was still under warranty and I got it fixed.  I haven't had any issues with it since (it's an otherwise very solid piece of equipment - and $1,000 less than the Nikon VR equivalentNext, I've got a Sigma EX Lens - 30 mm F/1.4 for Nikon DSLRs.  This aperture mechanism on lens has malfunctioned.  If I try to stop the lens all the way down to f22, the pictures end up being blown out - the complete opposite of what one would expect.  There's no function whatsoever for all f-stops between f11 and f22.  Of course, I bought the lens for it's use wide open - and it still works fine at 1.4.  But, the warranty has expired and, again, I'll have to foot the bill if I want it fixed.(I bought a Nikon 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX Lens to replace it.  Not as fast but it's got a 5 year warranty!)", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "I've changed my mind over time . . .(updated September 2009)", "unixReviewTime": 1194912000, "reviewTime": "11 13, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A210RG1PT4O3FA", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "Jim Saueressig \"KansasHorizons\"", "helpful": [519, 540], "reviewText": "I am rating this lens with only three stars because I am reviewing two lenses. Here is why:When I received my lens I later realized that I did not receive the extended three year warranty card that comes with the USA versions of the lens. Instead of just sending me the extended warranty card Amazon shipped me a whole new lens. Now while I was reading reviews prior to ordering this lens I had seen many reviews where the reviewer either loved this lens or they hated it. After a while I could see why...Some of the lenses that are being shipped are sharp all the way around while some are not sharp at all. Many claimed it was sharper at F:8 than F:4 while others said theirs was never sharp at all. Some complained about distortion and or dull or over saturated colors. I finally found a reviewer who had the opportunity to try 3-4 different lenses. They found that there seemed to be a lack of quality control all around when it came to this specific lens. Having a few days of both lenses I decided to compare them out for myself. I am glad I did.I put my camera in the front yard on a tripod and shot numerous sets of three for each lens at 10mm, 14mm, and 20mm. The results were surprising. The original lens I had been sent first was a clear winner. The trees and anything else around the picture were sharp, The replacement lens was anything but sharp. The colors on lens two were more vibrant than lens one but one can fix that with software where a blurred image is not really fixable.I shot numerous sets with both lenses and a few different F settings and the results remained the same. The replacement lens was the one being returned. Lucky for me the Sigma extended warranty cards have nothing on them, you enter the serial numbers yourself so I kept the card and returned the replacement lens.I have included two photos to the gallery for this lens so you can see what I found. In the end my first lens would have received a 5 star rating because they really are excellent lenses if you can get a good copy. The replacement copy would have received a 1 star rating. Luckily I had the chance to compare the two copies side by side or I may have never known just how bad lens number two really was.If your lens has problems like lens number two you have a poor copy of the lens, return it. Sadly from all of the reviews I have read it seems that maybe 20% of the lenses are not good copies. Many just think poor sharpness is just a general lens limitation when chances are it is just a poor copy they received.Bottom line!1. Get the lens out and shoot some shots, If it is not sharp around the edges return it for another copy.2. If you do not get your extended warranty card you may have gotten a gray market lens. Return it.Upon talking to a Sigma rep I was told they have no way to verify whether the lens is USA or Gray market (international) by the serial number, if you do not have the extended warranty card you will not get the warranty extension so buyer beware. The card is a card stock type black and red folded warranty card that specifically states that it is the extended warranty card. Don't let any dealer tell you that it has the extended warranty without it being in your hands. Sigma currently has no registration on their website. The rep told me to keep the card in a safe place and then in the event that I need service I will send it and a copy of the original sales receipt in with the lens for service.All that being said I can tell you that this is a wonderful lens if you need a super wide angle lens and you get a good copy. They are not the fastest lenses around but for the money you cannot beat it.Take a look at the pictures I included for the lens and hopefully they will help you determine if you were lucky on the Sigma draw and give you an idea of what you need to check for.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Could be 1 Star, Could be 5 Stars! Read More:", "unixReviewTime": 1235779200, "reviewTime": "02 28, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A2SFN7BKAA7NK7", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "John Hochadel", "helpful": [34, 41], "reviewText": "I really wanted this lens to work out for me. I received the lens, took a few test shots, viewed them on my computer and noticed that one side was significantly more out of focus than the other. My first thought was \"user error,\" so I tried again, using a tripod, several different focal lengths and apertures...same result. Amazon generously sent me a replacement, and I repeated the test. This time, I had 2 lenses on hand. The new lens had the distortion on the opposite side. Amazon sent me a third lens. I repeated the test with all three lenses. Each lens had major distortion issues, including CA, in different areas. Each lens was consistent in its results, leading me to doubt that my results were due to user error. I am aware of the distortion caused by wide angle lenses, but this was unacceptable. I am now clearly aware of the quality control issues of Sigma lenses. Each of the three lenses was so different in the location and type of distortion, as well as overall quality of images, that I returned them all. As usual, Amazon was most helpful!", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Did not work for me.", "unixReviewTime": 1274140800, "reviewTime": "05 18, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A35ILBIBAXYHJW", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "K. Dardashti \"Electronics fan\"", "helpful": [297, 316], "reviewText": "there are currently 4 wide angle zoom choices available on the EF-S canon mount (d-rebel/xt/20d)  canon 10-22, Sigma 12-24, sigma 10-20, tokina 12-24.  Of these, sigma 12-24 is the only one which is usuable on a full frame sensor (canon 1d, 5d, possible future cameras).  There is sizable difference in field of view between the 10 mm, and 12 mm.  and the tokina is closer to 13 mm on its wide end.  The sigma retails for about 2/3 the price of the canon.  Optically they are very similar, with the canon having a larger maximum aperature, which is generally not important in a wide angle lens.  The built construction is EX, they higher line of sigma, and it excellent.  The focus motor is HSM, making it fast, and very accurate.  Resolution chart show the sharpness to be very close to that of canon.  The color and contrast is excellent, the flare and chromatic abberation genenrally well controlled.  A fun lens to use, and excellent value.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "best value wide angle.", "unixReviewTime": 1139443200, "reviewTime": "02 9, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1FR68QH6Z4YZM", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "kkrome25 \"kkrome25\"", "helpful": [54, 58], "reviewText": "This 10-20mm lens is equivalent to a 15-30mm in a 35mm film camera, so it's an ultra-wide lens at 10mm. I was pleasantly surprised at how sharp the images are from this lens; and it's rectilinear, which means that straight lines in real life remain straight in the photograph. It is a well-made lens, made with high-grade materials. What this lens excels at is when you want to photograph sweeping landscapes, close-quarters interior photography, and in architectural photography where you don't mind the exaggerated converging lines that an ultrawide produces (and is typical of wide-angle lenses). You can also get close to the subject as well: 5 inches from subject to the front surface of the lens. By the way, if you're going to photograph in Big Sky Country, this is the one lens you can't leave home without. And, I suggest purchasing a graduated neutral density filter to balance out the luminance range between the sky and the landscape below. This great lens package comes with front & rear lens cap, lens hood, and a very nice cushioned & zippered lens pouch!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Lens for Big Sky Country", "unixReviewTime": 1175126400, "reviewTime": "03 29, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AD3G203JHBH0", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "Lastinclass", "helpful": [22, 23], "reviewText": "I was not sure when I ordered this lense what to expect, thinking if I dont like the results, I can return it. I think I am keeping it. I was a non believer, now I am a believer. I did a lot of research as others did and I was a canon lense person all the way.  This is a very nice lense good value for the dollar. It feels well made a little heavy but not too heavy, Focuses quick and is quiet.I was at a car show today and took about 150 shots with my 30D, the color was vibrant and the pictures were sharp and clear. I dont use a wide angle enough to justify the canon price, but i think I will be using this more than I expected. If you want a good wide angle lense at a good price for a cropped sensor camera, this is it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent Lense!!!!!!!!!  Once a Non-believer ,now a Believer", "unixReviewTime": 1176508800, "reviewTime": "04 14, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A228XAJI68B1H", "asin": "B0007U00X0", "reviewerName": "Mark Bretschneider", "helpful": [19, 25], "reviewText": "I purchased this lens as I have several Sigma  lenses of superior quality that I use for professional purposes.  I was very disappointed in the optical quality of this lens.  It had all the features, the right design, operation, but in the end,  the images were just not sharp.  Not at all what I expected from a Sigma product.There were plenty of reviews of this lens and many talked of the poor image quality.  I decided to buy anyway, and unfortunately proved the negative reviews to be correct.I won't bore you with technical details,  Simply put,  I shot some test images,  put em on the computer screen and saw how fuzzy they were,  just awful. I did not need to measure or rate anything.  My eye ( and my clients would be able to ) see the fuzz without having to enlarge the image. I hate to say it as I have had good success with Sigma,  but this lens would be an assignment killer.  It reminded me of the cheap Promaster lenses you used to get for $69.00 from Ritz.Thankfully Amazon has a good return policy so I was able to return it.  A week later I got the Nikon 10.5mm prime f2.8 (about $220 more) and found it was worth the extra money.  I know I am comparing a zoom to a prime,  but the difference is incredible. If your budget is limited I would look to a Tamron or other 3rd party lens,  if you have the extra scratch, get the Nikon 10.5mm f2.8  or take a look at the Nikon Extreme wide angle zooms. I assume for Canon shooters, the quality results would be similar,  look again to other 3rd party or Canon lenses.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Not a Buyer", "unixReviewTime": 1275696000, "reviewTime": "06 5, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A2LC8AGBA41MZF", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer \"Paul Leigh\"", "helpful": [16, 18], "reviewText": "Two months ago, I replaced my well-loved T|E with the E2, primarily for the Bluetooth. This has exceeded my expectations and Bluetooth become an essential tool for e-mail collection.  On the T|E I never succeeded in collecting mail via my GPRS enabled phone (using infrared).  With the E2 it astonishingly easy to set up. It helps having an old, ubiquitous, phone I think.This newer model E2 still provides the right funtionality, right battery life, right weight at the right price. Just some poorly thought out \"improvements\" over the previous model.1. The T|E2 is slower than my T|E. This is really distracting when writing graffiti, which I do quite quickly. The T|E never lagged behind, but the E2 does. I conclude that this arises from the use of flash memory. Go back to the other type, please.2. The standard mini-USB port on the E2 has been replaced by a proprietory port. I liked the USB port. I could use my identical Canon camera cable for the T|E. This allowed the other one to stay at work. Now I carry the cable round with me.3. The T|E2 charger socket. Why has this changed? My old charger does not work with the new unit.4. The 5-way button navigation has changed in PalmOS 5.4. Perhaps to be more Windows like - a mistake. On the TE I could navigate through notepad entries with the left and right edge. Now these simply move focus between on-screen buttons, so I have to navigate to the left or right on-screen button and press the centre key to activate the button - tiresome.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Tungsten E2 vs E. Slightly better, slightly worse", "unixReviewTime": 1131321600, "reviewTime": "11 7, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A6Y1NR701XI3G", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "AutMom \"AutMom\"", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "This is a pretty nice PDA if you don't have a lot of things you want to do with it.  The battery life is great and you don't lose data if the battery goes down.I'm a physician, and I had a lot of programs that I wanted to put on it--looking up reference values, drug programs, etc.  There just isn't memory room for it all.  I had to delete some of the programs that came basic with the E2 to make room for what I deem I absolutely had to use.  This I figure is my own fault since if I had known what I needed, I would have bought a PDA with more memory in the first place.  Live and learn.Overall it's a nice little product, I just didn't know exactly what I needed.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Pretty good for light usage", "unixReviewTime": 1162080000, "reviewTime": "10 29, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2SC1AAY6X7V0A", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "Blair \"Biblical Hebrew Made Easy!\"", "helpful": [14, 21], "reviewText": "This is my second PDA from PalmOne. I had high hopes this PDA would last longer than my previous PDA from PalmOne, which lasted two days.Well, to my dismay, after buying all sorts of software and accessories, it broke on DAY TWO!!! Unreal. PalmOne produces abosolute JUNK. Do NOT buy this PDA!", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "JUNK", "unixReviewTime": 1135728000, "reviewTime": "12 28, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3UM9GUOUCC90T", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "B. Naseer \"Naseer\"", "helpful": [26, 28], "reviewText": "I've been a palm user for many years, from Zire to Tungsten E and then E2. I was impressed by the cost and the new features of E2. However one fine day, 4 months after its purchase, it hung up during hotsync and even the soft and the hard reset aren't working. It totally died, and I've no idea what caused it.I would not recommend Tungsten E or E2 to anyone who wants to keep it for sometime, as their operating systems are vulnerable and thats the reason palm only gives a 90 day warranty on them, compared to 1 year for Tungsten T5 and TX.Its small 32MB memory is too small for any professional user, so invest a little more and get the more high end models.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Lasted a few months only..", "unixReviewTime": 1134000000, "reviewTime": "12 8, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2LEJPX95M1XER", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "Carolyn", "helpful": [18, 19], "reviewText": "An upgrade from the E (which had to return because of a bad screen). Same price as the E with the $50 rebate, so why not?Nice upgrades such as using your own photo's for backgrounds, better intergrated programs, better battery life - used over a week now including at least an hour of music and barely 1/8 down.Setting up the sync was a little tougher since I upgraded. The sync keep trying to sync my old stuff. Finally figured it out but took some time. Palm doesn't supply very good directions for set up. Especially when upgrading.I use a Mac and sync with iCal, Address and Stickbrain. Works great.I would most definetly get an extended warranty. PDA's are known to break down for various reasons and since you're spending $200 +/-, it's worth it!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Wonderful! Very Pleased", "unixReviewTime": 1126656000, "reviewTime": "09 14, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "ALLH3TMBT4MYZ", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "Claude Fletcher", "helpful": [13, 16], "reviewText": "I was very happy with the device until it stopped working after only six months. Fortunately I backed up my information regularly and so didn't lose any. Now I am faced with the prospect of buying a new PDA. I'm sad to say the new one is unlikely to be a Palm. Manufacturers must be able to balance economical prices with reliability. What's the point of giving you low prices if you have to replace the units often.Makes no sense to me.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Lasted only six months", "unixReviewTime": 1155254400, "reviewTime": "08 11, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1IH42TUIZ2XJL", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "Gab", "helpful": [29, 31], "reviewText": "I ordered this from Amazon.com on October 3, 2005.  I received it two weeks later and immdiately set it up, bought accessories, etc. The unit was wonderful ---until yesterday, January 17, 2006 when the power on/off button stopped working.  I called Palm and was informed that I was out of warranty (90 days from date of purchase) and that I could return the unit to Palm and they would repair it for $149.99 (almost the cost of a new E2 unit)!I declined this \"customer service\" reps offer and called Amazon.com customer service.  I explained my dilemma and they told me to send the broken unit back to them and that they would issue a full refund and I immediately ordered a replacement from Amazon.com.For those of you who don't know, the only way to delete all your information from the handdeld before sending it it for repair is to do a hard reset which involved holding down the power on/off button.  Since this is what was broken on my E2, I spent hours manually deleting entries I didn't want someone else to see before returning it to Amazon.  Thank you Amazon for your excellent customer service.Palm has a longer warranty period for European Countries -- too bad for those of us who support Palm with our hard earned American dollars.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "It malfunctioned As Soon As The Warranty Ran Out", "unixReviewTime": 1137542400, "reviewTime": "01 18, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A112GI8CIS9ZJ8", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "Hparmwood", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "The best feature of the E2 is the improved battery life. Whereasthe old E will exhaust the battery in 4 hours of usage and emptyin a couple of days when not being used, the new E2 stands up tomany hours of continuos use.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great improvement over the Tungston E", "unixReviewTime": 1125964800, "reviewTime": "09 6, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "APGPEJS55U2SF", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "Jeffrey Liss", "helpful": [18, 19], "reviewText": "The screen display is beautiful and the battery life is great. I only need to charge my E2 once or twice a week. Bluetooth and Wifi were easy to set up and work fine in terms of Hoysyncing and Lan Access, as well as for sending and receiving files to all paired devices that were bluetooth enabled. I've owned an E2 for one month now.The E2 is not a multimedia powerhouse. My MP3's sound alot better on my Zire 72 than E2. Moreover, due to the slower processor and new NVFS memory system, I cannot listen to music and surf the web on my E2 simultaneously without some interference on the music side like I can on my Zire 72.As long as the multimedia limitations of the E2 are understood in advance, this is a very good PDA for a businessman or mobile entrepreneur who also needs to surf the internet and check  Email. It does take a couple of seconds for the Blazer Browser to close after a web session is concluded. But then again that is due to the slower processor speed.If you are a wise shopper, you'll find that the E2 is well worth the money.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Well Worth the Money", "unixReviewTime": 1131840000, "reviewTime": "11 13, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AHROSV6WJOEGY", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "John Faughnan \"John G Faughnan\"", "helpful": [21, 23], "reviewText": "I bought my Tungsten E2 on 3/8/06, as of 6/22/06 the digitizer is malfunctioning. The area of the digitizer where one taps on 'details' no longer responds reliably to tapping. Recalibrating the digitizer has no effect. I've seen this happen on a few Palm devices (Vx, Samsung i500), but never so quickly.I warranty is 90 days, a good clue to Palm's opinion of this device. The Lifedrive has a 1 year warranty.This device is still covered by my AMEX extended warranty and I'll probably get my money back this way.In retrospect I should have noticed how short the warranty period was on this device and that other, more costly, devices had a 1 year warranty. Stay away from any device with a 90 day warranty.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Digitizer dying at age 3 months", "unixReviewTime": 1150934400, "reviewTime": "06 22, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1H9FWYPDWHWYX", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "J. P. Riquezes", "helpful": [27, 45], "reviewText": "I've been buying Palm handhelds from the very first one (Palm Pilot). I've been periodically upgrading to the next model... UPGRADING???!!!It seems that the company is going backward running against quality. The first ones came in good and robust plastic body, well assembled. Then they made the m500 series very good finished, in a metal body. Since then the handhelds come now in a poor plastic body, metal like painted, that easily scratchs showing the white plastic behind. The Stylus peel off (m500's). The brand and model in the front of the machine come off in a few days (Tungsten E). The flip cover simply breaks apart after months of use (Tungsten E), without chance to be replaced because palmOne doesn't sell it as an accessory. Now I bought the E2 thinking is was going to be better than E and, sorprise!!! It's slower. Even the stick in the Stylus we use to reset it is so weak that bends when we make the minimum pressure on it. The E model got charged throught the USB cable, great advance! and now its successor doesn't do it.What's worse, same thing happens with cameras, cars, and so on... higher prices, less quality!!!At this point, I am not pretty sure I will remain being as loyal with palmOne handhelds. Next \"upgrade\" I'll be for sure checking other brands.Stop doing this, get back to basics please!!!", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Goooing dooowwwnnn!!!", "unixReviewTime": 1117670400, "reviewTime": "06 2, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2FCHKKUJHFFQW", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "Judy \"Judy Murray Jack\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "October 2006:  My Tungsten E, which was very satisfactory, was showing signs of battery failure so I opted for the E2.  I'm sorry I did not buy the TX which has a faster processor.  The E2 has non-volitile memory and a different file system.  It is so slow that it may take 4 seconds to turn on or to change programs.  I often get an \"out of memory\" message.  PalmOne did give me good tech support on this.  I have to do a warm reset.  The good news here is that the stylus that comes with the unit will work to do the reset on the back.Today, the E2 failed to do a Hot Sync or to turn on.  I finally tried the reset, and that solved the problem.  The PalmOne site shows that getting close to the 500 number of files limit will create problems.  Fortunately, I have less than 200 files.Other than speed between programs and the need to reset about once a week, the E2 is doing everything my E did, and just as well.  If you haven't tried the Palm Sudoku from Astraware, you're missing a most efficient way to play the game electronically.Update 03-01-07:  I got tired of how slow the E2 is to respond to simple tasks like turning off and on, changing programs, and syncing, so I bought a Palm TX.  This led to difficulties in getting TX software to work on my Windows XP systems.  I conquered the problems which you can read about in my review on the Palm TX.  I'm giving my E2 to a 6th grader who likes Sudoku.  I wish I had bought the TX in the first place!", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Tungsten E2 is slow", "unixReviewTime": 1166140800, "reviewTime": "12 15, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A30KSM229P7S0F", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "Keeley", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I recieved this item for my birthday.  I am a longtime fan of PDAs and I've owned both a Palm and a Toshiba in the past.  I'm also relatively experienced with electronic gadgets.  Ever since I recieved this Palm, it's been nothing but trouble.The specs say that it can synchronize with Outlook, but it never worked for me.  I called customer support (which, like most companies these days, is located in India) and they told me I need to reinstall Outlook on my PC.  It didn't work, so I was forced to use the Palm Desktop software that came with the unit.Palm Desktop was reliable in maintaining my daily calendar, but more problems arose when I tried to transfer photos from my PC to the handheld.  I called customer service and they had no idea what the problem was.  I'm still awaiting a callback.Meanwhile, I am considering returning the unit to the store from which it was purchased or at least trying to exchange it for another product if a return is not possible.Since my Tungsten E2 has such inconsistent performance, I suggest purchasing a less expensive unit like the Zire and replacing it at soon as it becomes unreliable.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Very Disappointed", "unixReviewTime": 1145318400, "reviewTime": "04 18, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AUPGZAUF8S6HG", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "Kelli Shaver", "helpful": [19, 20], "reviewText": "This is a great device for what it's meant to do. It's designed to store and organize pieces of imformation, personal data, notes, etc. not function as a mini-laptop. For these purposes, it works great. The screen is large and clear, everything is easy to navigate and the battery life is incredible. The PIM functionality is good. Being able to attach notes to to-do list items that are then cross-referenced in the calendar is very useful for keeping things organized. The address book holds everything you'd ever want to know about a persn and then lets you add your own custom fields.  Bluetooth is a nice feature and easy to configure, but not necessary for what the palm does, so I consider it an added bonus. This certainly isn't the be-all and end-all of mobile devices, but if you're looking for a well-designed tool to store and organize information that nees to be readily accessible, then the Tungsten E2 shoudl do the job jsut fine.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great for what tis' designed to do", "unixReviewTime": 1154995200, "reviewTime": "08 8, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A34VV0DDR0OFE5", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "K. Rowley", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "Bought this device to use for a new job that I have just started. Could not be happier with the unit I received. One thing that I will complain about - when I bought the unit, I also bought one of the Palm 2GB SD memory cards. Only to find out that this particular unit (E2) can't use that large an expansion card. So I ended up returning the 2GB card and buying two 1GB cards instead. I also bought the book, \"How to Do Everything with Your Palm Powered Device\" - which I found to be very helpful in minimizing my learning curve. I originally bought this device to do the standard business sort of things, but I must confess that since discovering that you can use it to read eBooks AND play MP3s - I now have a hard time going somewhere without this thing tagging along.2-23-2009, Just an update to my original posting... I've been using my E2 now for the past 18 months or so on a daily basis... and it's still running fine.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Gizmo", "unixReviewTime": 1190246400, "reviewTime": "09 20, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3UZR6DNZE51J9", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "Kyle Felker \"Technologist, reader\"", "helpful": [19, 19], "reviewText": "I had always resisted buying a handheld because I didn't think I'd use it for anything, but as I  started managing more and more of my personal data electronically through address books and phone dialing lists, I decided the time had come.  After reading countess reviews of different PDA models, and suffering a great deal of sticker shock (600$ for a PDA?  Who the hell can afford that?)  I settled on the E2.  My criteria were:*I wanted something with bluetooth so I could use my Motorola v551, which also has built-in bluetooth, as a modem.*I wanted basic PIM features: contact list, calendar, task list, etc.*I wanted email capability* I wanted a reasonable priceI must say, on the whole, I am extremely pleased.  The E2 is an excellent, no-frills device that delivers on all the above points.  The good stuff:* The PIM features are generally easy to figure out without referring to an instruction manual.* Graffiti is a good deal easier to use than I thought it would be* Navigation is very, very intuitive, whether you do it using the stylus or the four-way navigation key.* I have seen people complain about the metal casing, but I find it very attractive and sleek, even if it does hold fingerprints.* It's conveniently sized-tiny enough to fit comfortably in my front pocket.*The battery life is astonishing-I've been fiddling with it almost continuously for days, and it still doesn't need charging.There are some negatives as well:* The device has a very tiny amount of on-board memory, so while it comes bundled with MP3 and audiobook software, you're not going to be making much use of them without a memory card.  Ditto for any extra software.* The palm memory cards are basically overpriced MMC cards, which you can purchase at any electronics store for a noticeably lower price.* There is no cradle or case, and no extra stylus in case you loose the one that comes with it.* Palm needs to stop wasting valuable space by etching a writing area at the bottom of the screen-why not just write anywhere on the screen, like the windows handhelds, and give us some more viewing space?On the whole, this is an excellent entry-level, no-frills handheld, and a good choice for someone who has never used a handheld device before (like me).  It doesn't have a lot of fancy extras, but it's ease of use, long battery life, and solid feature set make up for this.A word about using this device with a phone to send email or access the internet-if you plan on doing this, make sure you go the palm site and check before you buy to make sure your phone is supported.  You will need to download the latest phone drivers as well.  Make sure your phone has bluetooth and that you also have data service on your phone plan.  Establishing a bluetooth connection with the phone was easy and took seconds-configuring the phone and the palm to send and recieve email was not.  There are a multitude of settings, many of them not very well explained, and if something goes wrong, it will be difficult to figure out if the phone, ISP, or handheld is at fault.  It took me the better part of a day to get versamail to send email through the phone's GPRS service.  If you are not technically adept, it may be easier for you to either buy a Wi-Fi card, or to pass on this and buy a more expensive model with built-in Wi-fi.  I'd also note that data speeds over a data phone connection are very slow-fine for sending email, but not good for accessing the web.  If you want to surf the web on a handheld, spring for wi-fi.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Excellent no-frills Handheld", "unixReviewTime": 1127692800, "reviewTime": "09 26, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A251AUO4BYE25Q", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "Mark H. Webster", "helpful": [83, 84], "reviewText": "This is my first organizer ever. I'm totally impressed. After reading some of the reviews here I was scared to put my money on any of these things. Seems like someone had complained about every model out there. This one had at least above average reviews, and  I liked the fact that fewer people complain about the soft boot issue.Now it's two months later and I can't imagine living without it. I'm a college teacher, with lots of faculty meetings to track, plus a freelance business, and the usual dentist and car appointments. I used to keep a paper \"to do\" list in my shirt pocket, but it doesn't ring if I forget to scan it several times a day. In short, my life is so busy that I was beginning to drop appointments.I'm happy to report that this tungsten e2 syncs perfectly with Microsoft Outlook 2002. There are a few minor anomalies, but nothing that is a deal breaker. I was disturbed at first to discover that the thing is never really off. I would have liked to be able to totally turn it off when I had no appointments coming up, to save juice. However I've found that this is a none issue. It runs for at least 4 days, sometimes a week and a half before needing a charge.The operating system seems quite solid. It locks up maybe once every 2 to 3 weeks, but that requires just a tap of a pen on the reset button on the back, and it comes back all happy in a couple seconds. When I was installing third party software every couple days it would lock up more frequently, but I've got everything I need now, and things have settled down.I don't use it for email, or for surfing the net. I have a laptop for that, and I didn't want to pay an extra hundred for the wifi card.The coolest thing about this e2 is the calendar and alarm, the tasks list, and the contacts. With the hot buttons on the front to access these vital functions, this thing never leaves my person. I even take it climbing in my backpack. Never know when I might want to make a note about something, or meet a new friend and exchange phone numbers.After I bought it and realized how useful it was, I was tempted to exchange it for the treo, which has all this, plus a phone...until I found out that you have to pay at least $50 a month to the phone service to make the internet stuff work. Scratch that! I love this thing. It's perfect for my needs. I did buy the 2 year replacement policy from circuit city. $30 seemed like a small price to pay for peace of mind.The software you can get for Palms is amazing. Here is my list of essential software:Uninstall Manager - NorthglideBDicty 5.9 Pro - dictionary, thesaurus and conjugatorPocket Tunes from Normsoft (it is compatible with the \"plays for sure\" windows media player files. I can play free downloadable audio books from the library.)Tide Tool 2.2  - toolworks dot com (if you live near saltwater, a must have)MessageEase V.5 - faster than graffiti for entering text, and it's free!AvantGo - captures websites off the net when synced, view them on the commute later. - free!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "perfect for an absent minded professor", "unixReviewTime": 1146268800, "reviewTime": "04 29, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1TZ0VDFSS1Z4C", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "M. Reis", "helpful": [13, 14], "reviewText": "The E2 replaced my Palm M105 after 4 years of trouble-free service. I have had this device for about a year and never had a problem. I have not even had to recalibrate it yet! It charges in the sync cradle and has never once had the batteries discharge. I tried using it for music, but it does not do this very well compared to an iPod or MP3 player (sound is fine though). The main drawback is the file conversion and loading process is not simple. It is also too big to be a useful MP3 player in my opinion. I didn't buy it (or my cell phone) to be a music player, so no big deal for me! :-)Bottom line - It is a great PDA and it syncs flawlessly out of the box with my Outlook calendar and Contacts on my PC.NOTE: I do reccomend buying the optional aluminum case from Palm to protect it though. I have dropped my Palm twice when trying to juggle too many things and the case has saved it!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Works great as a PDA, reasonable price, no problems!", "unixReviewTime": 1160352000, "reviewTime": "10 9, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1GQGYROVZVW49", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "P. Schmidt", "helpful": [59, 64], "reviewText": "I bought my first Palm years ago, the classic PalmPilot III. It still works reliably, and never lost the contents of its memory. Hotsync always worked great, and only the slowly deteriorating digitizer function (it got drifty and would not stay calibrated) entice me to look for a new version.Palm's website has a product recommending feature, and after I plugged in my expectations, it came up with the Tungsten E2. I was happy that I could buy it for less than $200, and it came with lots of nice software.I intitially could not get the Palm Desktop to install, because I still had the older version on my computer, and this caused an odd error message that had nothing to do with previous software versions. I could not find a way to email tech support through the Palm website, so I took a guess and emailed support@palm.com. I got a reply in less than 24 hours, with advice to make sure earlier software versions were not installed. Good for them that they got back relatively quickly, and good also that they gave me the right answer the first time. Bad that the software was unable to recognize an earlier version and respond with a prompt or other warning (as most software installer utilities will do).The E2 itself seems very nice, and the ease of use and nice display made me quite happy at first. I am worried about the non-replaceable rechargeable battery, since it seems that when that starts to lose its ability to hold a full charge, the unit will have to be thrown away...never had that worry with the old Palm III, which used replaceable alkalines! At least most modern rechargables have long useable life spans....Then the annoyances started. Just as soon as I had decided this was a keeper, and had chucked the packaging material (the retailer will not take it back without the plastic vacuum pack, even if it was destroyed in order to extricate the E2 in the first place), I noticed a very serious bug in the operating system (OS). The FIND function will not find more than 8 contacts, even if many more contacts match the search criteria. At first I thought they limited it to only 8, but remembering the identical function on the old Palm III, I could not believe this. Further checking showed that the screen says that it is able to 'find more?' if I tap a button, and when I do so it indicates that it is displaying additional matches, but it really just shows the first 8 matches again. This is a critical fault in a function that is really necessary for the PDA's primary purpose...that of storing and retrieving many contacts.I was tipped off, by the E2 forum in the Palm website, that this was a well known problem (wish I had checked this before buying), but also that there were other amazing bugs. One of these is the built-in calculator, which comes up with some real far out answers when using the % key. For example, 200 + 5% is 2.05? How about 210!!!!!Palm makes it as hard as possible to contact tech support and customer service, but I worked at it and finally had a so-called Level 2 tech support person on the line (from India, it sounded like, and they called me at 10:30 at night). They readily acknowledged the problems, but stated that Palm had designed the E2 without flash-upgradable OS, and with so many having been made, Palm decided to simply not take them back...can't fix the problem cheaply with a download, so ignore the problem and let the customer twist in the wind.The tech support person gave me a phone number and expediting code, which got me through to Palm corporate headquarters and a manager in customer relations. He plainly stated that the E2 did not have any bugs, since the things I was bringing up were actually designed that way, and as such were design features, not faults. No argument I made could get him to admit that this was a problem. When I pressed him for help and said his 'company line' was clear BS, he stated that the problems had gone as far as the CEO of Palm, who had decreed that the company would not admit a fault and would not fix, take back or in any other way remedy the problems. He said the company position is that the E2 is a 'low end' product, and cannot be expected to work as well as the more expensive products in their line!Well I cannot return my E2, cannot afford to throw it away and buy a more expensive one, and I do need a PDA that runs Palm OS applications. My solution was to spend another $40 and buy two after-market programs, a scientific calculator application and the IntelligentFind application. Both work fine, and unless the E2 starts to have problems turning on (as many have complained about), I suppose it will do a decent job until I grow tired of it in a few years.But, the real rub is that Palm used to be a fine company with a high quality, well thought out and manufactured product of high reliablilty. They are now simply a maker of a consumer commodity, rather like $5 calculators, and their service and support are about as good as one would expect from that scenario. It is sad.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "So close, but not a winner....Palm is letting customers down", "unixReviewTime": 1143590400, "reviewTime": "03 29, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1KO3M7TLR9DFR", "asin": "B0007VMROE", "reviewerName": "S. Allen", "helpful": [890, 903], "reviewText": "Ignore most of the complaints about this model and Palm in general.  Remember what you want a Palm for: storing information in an easy-to-access manner.  For most people, it isn't supposed to be a mini laptop.  It doesn't matter if the specs haven't changed much over the years.  How much has a DayRunner improved in the past couple of decades?  Some innovations make sense, sure.  I've had several PDAs over the past few years because of specific things I wanted (rechargable battery, color screen, wireless access, etc.).  Now I have a E2 (for the Bluetooth, screen, design, and ease of use).  But at the end of the day, my usage has stayed pretty constant.  I want good PIM applications (personal information management) on a small device with a good screen and battery life and the ability to check my email.  That's all I want, and the E2 gives me that.  Sure, Palm could wow us with innovations, but I really can't figure out what they could introduce that would be a \"must-have\" feature.  Competing Windows Mobile devices don't offer anything particularly better either (unless you want a jack of all trades device that isn't particularly good at anything.  In other words, if you want a PDA, this one is great.  Here's why:1.  For most of the things that anyone does with a Palm, it works great.  In other words, the PIM features work great, and the direct synchronization with Outlook is fantastic (and a new feature only on the past few Palm devices).2.  The hardware and \"fit\" of the device is great.  This is the latest in the \"Palm V\" model and it shows.  No gimmicks, just a good device fit and design wise.3.  The Bluetooth feature is great, if you need/want it.  Setting up PC Bluetooth sync is easy if you follow the manual and the wizard on the device.  Using it with a phone is a much greater challenge due to the few phones supported directly by Palm.  Check first to see if yours is.  If not, there might be a work-around, but prepare yourself for a few hours on the internet trying to find one.4.  The fact that the memory doesn't get erased when the power runs out will be really helpful if you're prone to forgetting to charge your devices.The bad:1.  Versamail is incredibly difficult to work with.  By far it has taken me the longest time to find out that I can't use it to sync with Outlook as planned (this is because you can't directly Hotsync IMAP accounts with SSL security, nor can you sync an IMAP account to Outlook, points buried in Palm's website).2.  As mentioned, getting Bluetooth to work with an unsupported phone is a real pain and not the most reliable connection ever invented.3.  Yeah, yeah, it shows fingerprints, should have a power indicator light, and a cradle would have been nice.  A little too much cost-cutting, I think.Overall, I'm very happy with the E2.  It does what I want and probably more than what most people desire (most people probably don't need Bluetooth on a PDA).  If you don't care about Bluetooth or the non-volatile memory on the E2, get the Tungsten E and save yourself $50.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "It is great for many things, and not so great for a few", "unixReviewTime": 1114128000, "reviewTime": "04 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2AY4YUOX2N1BQ", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "Ciaran", "helpful": [25, 29], "reviewText": "To buy or not to buy in 2012?MY QUALIFICATIONS:I am a photographer, and have been for about 4 years now. I'm in between semi-pro and pro, and my main focus is wedding photography and engagements. I would say that about 90% of everything I shoot involves a person in some way, so please keep this in mind when reading my review. I am also a bit of a gear-head, in the sense that I love to stay current on knowing about the latest technologies. It is also important to know, however, that I do not necessarily believe that the latest and greatest advancements in photo tech are actually necessary, nor have I ever pre-ordered photography gear personally.INTROI first used the 5D in 2010 (well after its release) when a friend lent me their camera for shooting a wedding. I shot my first weddings on a couple of rebels - a big mistake. At the time I didn't realize how important camera cache, AF speed and low-light performance all were in wedding photography and it was an experience I didn't want to repeat if I could help it. The 5D completely changed the way I shot, and in my biased opinion, helped me become a better photographer. The first wedding I shot on one was a dream! Just so you don't think that I was awed by the step up alone, I have shot with the 5D MkII, 5D MkIII, ID MkII, IDs MkII and the 7D since then.BUILD QUALITYNow as another reviewer has mentioned, Canon came under fire from some in regards to the build quality...I won't rehash what has already been said on this topic but allow me to express how much I enjoy the build quality of the 5D. It is not the same as the 1D series that's for sure (I also owned a 1Ds MkII Full Frame), however it beats the rebels and even the XXD series by a LONG shot. The camera feels very sturdy in the hand, and has a nice weight to it (no doubt due to the alloy body). I have owned two of these cameras, and borrowed one extensively (thanks Mike!) and overall have had very few issues with all three copies. One camera did suffer from the well-documented mirror issue (glue coming undone) however I had a backup camera with me, and Canon glued the mirror free of charge (including a CLA to boot)! For those of you with 5Ds, please be aware that this is STILL being done, even if your camera is out of warranty.FEATURESNow, this is perhaps the most controversial point in digital photography. Allow me to let you in on a little secret: camera companies want to make money more than they want to make cameras. Boom - I'll give you a minute to regather your exploded head. I jest, however at the same time I am dead serious. Even the noble photographic giants such as Canon and Nikon have to answer to shareholders. The way they stay on top? New features. Some of them are super handy, HD video for example (if you shoot it) or even Live View (which I hated at first). Many of them, are absolutely worthless. Who needs a camera that goes up to 160,000ISO? I have a rule to never shoot above 800ISO, and even then only in good lighting conditions! I say all this to say, don't get caught up in the gear games - you don't need a camera that was made in the last 6 months to make good pictures. Here is a short list of features, that make the 5D classic a contender in 2012:- Full Frame. This is the main reason why most people buy this camera.- 12.8 MP - enough to make great-looking poster size prints. Do you really need more?- Extended ISO of 50-3200, more than you'll ever need.- Large and bright viewfinder, with 97% coverage- 17 RAW frames at 3FPS- FANTASTIC image qualitySHOULD YOU GO NEWER?There are a few reasons why you might want a newer camera. Now keep in mind, we are talking about a price jump of about $1000 for the 5D MkII (I'm ignoring APS-C cameras). Here are a few reasons why the jump might be worth it. If you find yourself nodding and pining for these features, then by all means go ahead. If, however, like me you don't think these are necessary for great pictures, move on!- Video capabilities- Larger LCDs with better resolutions- Live View- Faster FPS- Slight increase in image quality- Higher ISO, color bit rate and dynamic rangeIMAGE QUALITYI have to say that some of my best work has been done on the Canon 5D. Sure the 50D and 7D have newer sensors and processors, but when it comes down to it I can spot a shot from my 5D out of a batch of mixed files any day. Let's be honest for a second: image quality depends more on the glass you are using and the light available than your camera sensor. Sure, you will know if a picture was taken with an old Canon D60 (never heard of it? eBay has them for a hundred bucks), but overall the 5D keeps up with much never cameras. The full frame sensors allows for much nicer bokeh from closer up (google \"full frame better bokeh\" for a full explanation), something that is invaluable to a wedding photographer who doesn't get to control his or her environment.OVERALLI got my 5D in good used condition for almost the same price of an excellent used condition 50D (which my wife uses), but I rarely finding myself wanting to use the 50D. My wife gets some great shots and it is a fabulous camera, but having full frame really is that important to me. Will I upgrade to the 5D MkII/III? Of course I will. I do not believe, however, that it is worth a business loan. I have been using the 5Ds now for almost three years, and I will continue to do so until (a) they die, (b) I receive a surprise inheritance, or (c) Canon comes out with a full frame camera with new features I can't live without. If you are a serious photographer on a budget, don't let the manufacturing date scare you! The 5D is still a workhorse and I have met countless pro photographers that use them to this day. As long as my clients keep smiling in delight when they see their wedding pictures, I will continue to use this fine camera.A TIPThere is only one grip on Amazon for this camera (BG-E4 equivalent) that is vastly over-priced. I found a Jenis grip on eBay for less than forty dollars. It ships from China, however it has given me no problems whatsoever, and is of the same quality as any other third-party grip I have used (and I have owned five different brands).SUGGESTED ACCESSORIESI have used or I own everything listed below, and have rated them at 4 stars or above:Remote Shutter Release Cord for Canon EOS 5D(I use this for astrophotography - excellent!)2 Pack of High Capacity Batteries For Canon EOS 5D(less durable, but single charge lasts just as long as OEM)Jenis Battery Grip for Canon 5D (Black)(as mentioned above, search for this elsewhere!)Canon Ee-D Focusing Screen for EOS 5D(essential for good composition!)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "An in-depth review of a fantastic camera!", "unixReviewTime": 1340582400, "reviewTime": "06 25, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "AQMI1W1RIRW90", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "D. Williams", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "I've owned the Canon 20D, the 30D, and the 5D Mark II and after doing much research and reading about various used full-frame cameras I decided to try this 5D. WOW!!! I LOVE IT!!! The reviews I read pointed out that this camera is a few years old in tech circles but the pictures it takes and the detail it captures is often preferable by Photographers who like the look of the portraits and landscapes it can produce -- even to the 5D Mark II. I owned the 5D Mark II (paid $2500 for it) and now I can add my opinion to the rest -- I like the colors, the clarity, and the file size of these 5D classic pictures more than the ones I took with my 5D Mark II (which I recently sold). And with the current used prices (under $1K) this is a full-frame dream come true. If you need higher ASAs that are very useable such as 3200 and above for your work, this may not work for you. Also if you need to do video with your camera you'll need the Mark II or another video producing model. More is not always better when it comes to megapixels and this camera (along with a 1Ds Mark II at 17mps) produces the most beautiful pics at sizes you can live with. I have a friend who owns a 1Ds Mark II and a 5D who absolutely loves his 5D. The used 1Ds Mark II also produces beautiful pics but costs about $750 more than the 5D at current used prices. Price was an issue for me. If I had the money, I would have gotten the 1Ds Mark II. But this is the way to go if you want full-frame quality at a screaming great price! Be warned that a full-frame camera will reveal the weaknesses and distortions of cheaper lenses so if you want to get the best results, invest into some quality lenses like Canons \"L\" pro quality lenses or research the cheaper ones to find which ones do well on full-frame cameras (like the bargain EF 50 f/1.8). I paired my 5D with a Canon EF 24-105 f/4.0 L IS (in a white box saves $200) and the combination is superb! And having a lens with IS is another dream come true! Leave the tripod home because you can get sharp pictures while hand-holding. A wonderful walk-around combination for hiking or traveling. If you are a journalist or a wedding photographer, you may want to invest into a 1D or 1Ds model, (with the larger body) which many reviewers say has a lightening fast focusing system which adjusts to perfect focus almost instantaneously and also can snap off more than (the 5Ds) 3 frames per second when needed. (Another feature I don't have to have).  I've found that the 5D is good at focusing on and tracking moving objects while the larger bodies (the 1D and 1Ds bodies) are superb in this area. I'm so in love with this 5D gem. I think it's got to be the best full-frame (large and highly detailed sensor) camera deal out there right now. And at under $1000 I think they are a screaming steal! Love my 5D with my 24-105!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A Screaming Steal at Current Used Prices!!!", "unixReviewTime": 1341705600, "reviewTime": "07 8, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A2BN67MBQQ23G1", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "FredM", "helpful": [15, 17], "reviewText": "If you've been considering a digital full frame camera (and who hasn't?) this is the one that doesn't cost an arm and a leg.  Now that Kodak is out of the picture, your choices are the EOS 5D or the 1DS Mark II, which costs more than twice as much.You do have to give up a few things, such as a super-fast frame rate for continuous shooting, but the 5D has the resolution you need for top-quality images, and the ability to get true wide angle perspectives from your EF lenses.  I happened to shoot this camera at a concert side-by-side with a vendor \"N\" camera, both under available light with 85mm f/1.8 lenses at a range of ISOs.  I found some shots I liked from the other camera, shot at ISO 400, and comparable shots from the 5D which, to my surprise, turned out to be exposed at ISO 3200.  The 5D absolutely lives up to its low noise reputation.  But don't take my word for it, try one out for yourself.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The bargain digital full frame camera", "unixReviewTime": 1156118400, "reviewTime": "08 21, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A60XVUH2EJKP8", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "Gerald \"polemicallycorrect\"", "helpful": [17, 19], "reviewText": "I switched from the Digital Rebel XT. Since I already had L-glass lenses, I didn't run into problems with the 5D \"exposing\" cheaper lenses. The 17-40mm really shines on the full sensor! The burst rate is simply astonishing. Missing flash doesn't bother me, heck it's a $3000 camera, I don't expect a built-in flash. I have the Speedlite 580EX, which of course is wonderful in itself. I also have the battery grip which I recommend, as well as the RS-80N3 cable release. Image quality is superb overall - the 5D REALLY shines in high ISO numbers - more so than even the 1D from what I've read. Even at 1600 there's hardly any noise. It allows you to take great, crisp photos in low light where other cameras would require a flash.The camera also is quite light while being very sturdy at the same time. The 3 fps might bother some, but I prefer the incredible burst numbers.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A revelation", "unixReviewTime": 1151884800, "reviewTime": "07 3, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A10WHLRZJNP93V", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "Gray 4 Wisdom", "helpful": [19, 22], "reviewText": "*Update II* Just tried DxO Optics Pro version 5 for the 5D and my lenses.  It fixes distortions, noise, exposure etc. that will transform your images into amazing ones automatically.  It costs twice as much for full frame bodies (3 bills) vs crop but is worth every penny.  Even if you use photoshop or whatever, just give the demo a try (dxo.com) and see what I mean!!!*Update* - currently using the Ee-S focus screen for DOF preview with my 50 1/4 since the standard screen could not handle the speed.  It's a great upgrade.  Focusing (manually) pops in perfectly.  Highly recommended.  Works well with slower lenses as well, just a slightly darker viewfinder.Five years ago I bought a Canon S40 (after using my father's Canon Pro 70) and at the same time I saw the 1DS and fell in love with the viewfinder and just knew full frame would be my next camera if my EYE improved.  Well, this summer I upgraded to the 5D. It was so much fun testing out new cameras because to me they are all just tools to help capture the images my eye sees.  I narrowed it down to three different bodies...Nikon D200, Leica M8 and Canon 5D.All three cameras are excellent.  The Nikon being the most feature rich. Leica, the best craftsmanship and simplest in design, and the Canon neatly settling in the middle.  Being that I like to shoot without flash 95 percent of the time, higher ISO performance was most important.  The Canon 5D pulled away at ISO 400 and beyond while still maintaining excellent dynamic range. One can use slower lenses because ISO 400 and higher are so clean.  And speaking about lenses, I found it so much easier to decide on what to buy for my purposes (50 /1.4 and 70-300 DO). Because a 50mm is just that, I use my feet and snap away. With the crop factor, it was not so easy. Just because a 35mm gives you a similar view as a 50mm on full frame the images look more distorted and just different.  Also, should one buy digital only lenses or full frame ones for the Nikon since they now have a full frame D3 on the horizon.  As for Leica, it had a 1.3 sensor so things would be interesting as well.Also surprising was how pictures looked when printed.  The Nikon was good but not quite up to the Canon and Leica (dynamic range) level.  The Leica was truly impressive until pictures with higher ISO printed.  Here the 5D shined and the larger I printed the bigger the difference not to mention the level of detail that was rendered. Bokeh was really smooth too.  What was truly amazing however, were images printed at ISO 3200 after a run through noiseware.  This left me speechless.Actually, as good as the 5D performed I realized it's not perfect by any means of the imagination.  It lacks a lot of pro features (because it doesn't want to step on big brother's toes - 1Ds II) like weather sealing, 5 fps, dedicated mirror lock-up button, and auto iso. It does however, makes one THINK about their photo.  Nikon has tried to simplify this by giving you auto everything.  That approach is neat and can give you the sense that it can capture the moment quicker and easier than the Canon or Leica. However, after using the 5D for a couple of months I find it simple and easy to use in addition to having a cleaner design with fewer buttons.  I must admit, the Leica was true joy, manual and all.  The rangefinder is so cool.  And the design so clean with virtually none of the wiz bang features of the Nikon.  One really does have to THINK about composing the image and manually focusing it.So, the 5D captured the best images for the way I shoot and the viewfinder is a true wow.  I have no problem seeing or framing the image. And the Canon system (great lenses and printers) is hard to beat. One really should shoot RAW to realize the true potential of the 5D.  However, the Leica M8 left an enduring impression on how I approach photography.Now, if only my EYE could improve...", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great but not perfect...", "unixReviewTime": 1190505600, "reviewTime": "09 23, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "ABH69EP8DDPKA", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "Hidenori Inagaki \"Hidenori Inagaki\"", "helpful": [133, 139], "reviewText": "This is one of the greatest things ever in my opinion for both professional, and amateur photographer.  Af least, it was for year 2006.And I am very happy to tell everyone that many of my current works for magazine are actually using this wonderful camera.There are several distinct advantage using this camera in the professional environment.1. They are affordable full size sensor camera.  Output quality will meets most of requirement given by the client.2. Battery is interchangeable with 20/30D, so it is ideal candidate for 2 camera configuration with 20D/30D.3. As far as Portrait photography are concern, it is currently one of the best in image quality and compared to the 1DS's older design sensor, when situation is ideal, it sometimes create superior result.4. Very low ISO noise, it is really useful for anyone who frequently shoot for low available light situation. ISO800 was useable even for the magazine purpose.5. Relatively lower shutter noise compared to the 20/30D that are helpful for some of noise sensitive shoot.6. Availability of third party add on are actually important to me when I looked for camera.  5D is very good with availability and compatibility or such 3rd party equipment.  And I am very happy to use many of 3rd party products with 5D.1DS, due to the its form, has major difficulty with some of affordable 3rd party tool, most notably bellows system.7. Weight is considerably less compared to the 1DS series and it is still full sensor size camera.8. DOF of full size sensor camera thus great Bokeh can be archived if used with great lens.9. Ability to shoot AdobeRGB color space RAW format10. Fairly easy to find additional equipment at the local camera store, when you are on the road (I thinkthat is very important)There are some disadvantage for this camera1. It is 12.8M pixel despite the fact it is full sensor (or Leica format) size and it is 4M pixel smaller than 1DS MKII.  And there are few occasion, it will not be enough for the given assignment(You really need to consider type of work you do)2. It does have lower burst rate compared to 1D MKII or 20/30D that is not exactly ideal for the performance art, sports events, or outdoor bird photography.Due to that fact, I normally bring my 20D with me, so if I need decent burst rate, I will rely upon my 20D instead.3.It is not weather sealed, thus, you really cannot take it out when weather is not exactly ideal without shortening camera's life.  So, it is not ideal camera for field photographer who shoot at challenging environment.4. It is still expensive for the amateur and, it is still expensive for the professional photographer with rather low fee structure.5. 9 point sensor is more than enough for the most of people.  It is however, not for the some of professional who requires quick focus and shoot.  It is bit frustrating to work with its AF, if you are used to with 45 point sensor of 1D/1DS series.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Wonderful Camera for both professional and amateurs alike!", "unixReviewTime": 1167868800, "reviewTime": "01 4, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2UQK3DAZ8NO2T", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "Hiram Grant \"just call me Sam\"", "helpful": [17, 30], "reviewText": "Image quality and build quality are very good in the 5D, but there are some possible shortcomings.For families with multiple users at different stages on the learning curve, the 5D lacks the easy \"Pic\" modes found on many other EOS cameras.  Additionally, the lack of a built-in flash means you'll need a bulkier, heavier flash unit.For action photographers, the 3 fps are a bit poor, especially compared to Canon's own 30D (5 fps).Additionally, the full size sensor will perform best with newer lenses.  In particular, older wide-angle zoom lenses will suffer.  Optics still play a critical roll in today's cameras, and Ferrari's run best on premium.The 5D is a tremendous tool used properly.  This is a very strong camera for studio or landscape photographers, where image quality is everything.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Very good camera, but not the best value.", "unixReviewTime": 1150848000, "reviewTime": "06 21, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AF8XXTXR6MNL4", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "In the Middle of the Road", "helpful": [28, 29], "reviewText": "While the 5D may be less expensive than the so-called professional grade, the camera is more oriented toward the Pro end than the 20D (or 30D) with fewer of dial settings but more capability.  Others have covered some other areas, so I'll try to avoid repetition.The full frame makes a great deal of difference to me. I like to print large images and I like to use L or other higher end Canon lenses (with a couple of knockoffs). There's no tradeoff in weight of consequence or compactness. The truth is that I prefer the recent glass that isn't computed for the smaller sensor.I liked the 20D, a lot, and most of my gear carries over to the 5D. I now have three cameras that take the same card and battery. The 5D if anything feels and looks more rugged that the 20D while being very compact.But the pictures? Great. The 20D was and is a first rate camera at 8.2 and its ability to use all Canon lenses, plus the EF-S for the smaller digital image.One person cited slowness over the 20D. I won't disagree with that, but it isn't a big deal to me. I typically use the drive for bracketing on the fly, but almost never for anything just to do a fast sequence, e.g. sports. I've owned motorr drives going back to my days as a pro in the 60s and 70s and they have their uses. Esssential sometimes.But they are like autofocus. On occasion, you need to be manual. Whenever  possible, I prefer to single shot or on occasion, a three shot burst. I find there's less chance of missing what I'm shooting.The \"Decisive Moment\" too often falls between the frames on motor driving.  But that's to everyone's taste. I really am impressed with the camera and having tried it, look forward to a trip with it, with the trusty 20D as the second.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Camera", "unixReviewTime": 1154131200, "reviewTime": "07 29, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1YVZIA9TGLVMS", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "j. salk \"linus\"", "helpful": [14, 20], "reviewText": "This is my first and very expensive entry into digit SLR photography.I have used canon point and shoot digital camera previously.I was avoiding DSLR's because I used to rarely use my EOS film SLR.The convienience of a point and shoot from that experience was overwhelming.Unfortunately so are it's limitations.So back I came, and the only choice though expensive was the EOS 5d for it's full frame sensor! The pain was reduced by the double rebates.Wow! This is a revelation! Beautifull images, lot of control.I did notice that the AF was not as fast as my old Elan IIE.I was also disappointed that for the price there was a lack of weather sealing. I am not happy with canon for this, but I really appreciate them for making a full frame sensor in a difficult marketable slot as far as their line up was concerned.This camera also needs prime or L lenses, because the sensor will reveal the inadequacies of inferior lenses. This add's to the cost.This is an exceptional photographic tool that I hope to use to improve my skill as I explore all it's capabilities!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "WoW!!", "unixReviewTime": 1163376000, "reviewTime": "11 13, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A16KEW6DTCM2T2", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "J. Steendam", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "Like most of the folks that are reading this review I tend to do a fair amount of research before making a purchase, any purchase.  Well four years ago I picked up the original Canon 300D Digital Rebel.  It was a great camera to learn with and I still enjoy looking back at my progress over the years.If you read any forums or discussions on photography web sites you will no doubt find that most experienced photog's will tell you to spend your money on glass before the camera itself.  That's the path I took and I could not be happier now that I have a great body to go with some great lenses.Instead of upgrading my archaic 300D (pushing a strong 6.5MP, useless above 400 ISO, in my opinion) over the years I've upgraded glass with a 15MM f/2.8 fisheye, 24-70 f/2.8L, 70-200 f/2.8L IS and a really sweet cheap lens - 50MM f/1.8 (everyone should have this lens, buy it now if you don't already have it).Finally I had the focal ranges covered (for now) but I really hated how long my 24-70 was on my Rebel.  This is the only reason I went for the 5D instead of the 40D.  Honestly, most people will never know the difference between 10MP and 12MP or 3fps and 6fps.  A full frame sensor is a whole new game when compared to a crop camera.  Believe the hype.Aside from the fact that my wide angle lenses are now actually \"wide\" the high ISO blew me away on this thing.  Crank this sucker up at 1600 and 3200 and take some photo's in low light, without a flash.  Go ahead, try it.  Incredible.So far this camera is worth every penny.  My only complaint would be that the on/off switch is a pain to use but I'm betting they do that to prevent you from turning it off accidentaly.  I guess I also wish the ISO was displayed somewhere without having to press the button.  And finally, like others have said, who really wants that direct print button?If you are trying to decide between the 40D and the 5D consider your lenses.  If you like long zooms, sports, etc. you will likely want the 40D.  If you enjoy wide angle lenses, don't need the burst rates and can see the value of the full frame - get the 5D.  Also, if you don't want to find yourself \"needing\" a Canon L lens or two, don't go full frame just yet.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "You've read the reviews, now buy this thing.", "unixReviewTime": 1195430400, "reviewTime": "11 19, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3GD6FMPHD40L2", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "J. Wong", "helpful": [36, 37], "reviewText": "I've had my 5D for nearly a year and have used it in a wide variety of conditions.  It took about five or six months for me to really get to know the camera.  Now that it and I understand each other, I'm extremely satisfied with the images it produces.The controls are logical and well placed.  The fine gradations of f-stop, ISO, and shutter speed allow great control.  The grip is good and the build is very solid.  While I understand that the 5D is not weather sealed by Canon standards, I've taken it on a drizzly three day backpacking trip and many rainy weekend sports events.  Other than sluggish performance from cold batteries, I've never had a weather related problem.The 5D's dynamic range is also outstanding.  You may need photoshop work to rebalance light and shadows in high contrast situations.  An amazing amount of tonal gradation and detail is sometimes waiting to be brought to life in the dark and bright areas of a picture.Resolution is also outstanding.  I've been very pleased with the 13X19's I've made of many landscapes.  You'll want good glass for this camera, to squeeze everything you can out of that wonderful full frame sensor.  I really appreciate the way the full size sensor allows you to get a full 24mm wide angle out of a lens like the 24-105mm.Low light performance is also outstanding.  I shot an Xmas program picture in a church last week from a distance of 35 feet at 105 mm and ISO 800 (1/80, 4.0), with no flash.  There was faint (and manageable) noise in the shadows, but the spotlighted performers in the foreground were crisp and clear.  Wow!I miss having an in-camera flash, but the camera is almost too big and certainly weighs enough as it is.  I shot a wedding and reception some months ago, with a zoom lens and an external flash on the camera all evening, and learned a lot about how much the camera weighs.One minor complaint:  the auto white balancing is not perfect.  Images taken under indoor lighting without flash often have color casts.  Custom white balancing works pretty well, but if you're moving through different kinds of light, you may have processing work to do.Apart from the reservations I've stated, I'm really impressed and happy with my 5D.  It's plenty of camera for even discriminating users. I think it will be at the top of the DSLR world for many years to come.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Superb!", "unixReviewTime": 1166227200, "reviewTime": "12 16, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A5KMMY627T3W", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "Kate Stokes", "helpful": [17, 17], "reviewText": "Both my review and this camera are complicated, actually. If you are an intermediate or semi-pro photographer as I was when I bought this, you will be in for a rude surprise. This camera makes the 40D seem like a point and shoot.Now, when I say that I don't mean it in terms of image quality. I mean in terms of operation. On every cropped-sensor Canon DSLR that I have used, the fully automatic mode will do for 90% of shooting situations. On the 5D, the fully auto mode will work about 20-40% of the time. This is pretty much a straight manual camera. This is a camera for the old-schoolers who like to take 5 minutes in front of a subject before snapping a single picture. I used to be one of those old-schoolers a long time ago with my 80's Canon film camera, but I forgot a lot of the knowledge before jumping back into DSLRs with the Digital Rebel a while back.I used a Digital Rebel, a Nikon D80, and a Canon40D. All of those cameras are awesome but you know what? They spoiled me. They failed to challenge me as a photographer because they were so simple to use and so great in full auto mode.The 5D is forcing me to slow down and get back to the basics. It's forcing me to hit the books again and have some patience. I'm sure this makes the old-schoolers happy.Am I happy with this purchase? You betcha. I believe I will hang onto this camera for a long, long time. If I replace it as my primary camera, then I will still keep it as a backup.O.K. so you probably want the pros and cons.Pros:Image quality: Really is all that. Don't listen to the reviews saying the images are comparable to the 20D/30D/40D etc. They are wrong. No, you won't see the difference on 4x6 and 5x7 prints. Yes, you will see the difference on 8x10s and up. TRUST ME on this. I shoot with the 40D and 5D together and I see it every day. Would the average person on the street see the difference in 8x10s? Probably not. Will you? Probably, if you are someone with an eye that has been conditioned through hundreds of hours of viewing to see such things.Noise: the noise is virtually zero with this camera, even at ISO 400-800. At ISO 100 you couldn't find a bit of noise if you had a gun to your head. On my 40D (my current backup) there is plenty of noise even at ISO 100. Now, I use the word plenty in a relative sense--relative to the 5D. If I had not seen the images from the 5D, and the 40D was the nicest camera I had ever shot with, I would say the noise was great. After doing my own side-by-side comparisons, I would say the 5D makes the 40D noise level look \"so-so.\"Shutter speed: fine with me! I'm not shooting from the sidelines at an NFL game. I don't need the shutter speed of the 40D. The shutter speed is PLENTY fast on this one. I have never once said to myself \"I wish the shutter was faster just then.\" It takes nice bursts just fine.There are other pros of course but those are the ones that come to mind.Cons:Body: you pretty much have to get the grip for this one. I can not get a decent handle on this camera without the grip. I have tried and tried with different lenses, and every time the grip is necessary. It's strange, really. I don't know what accounts for this. I don't have the same problem at all on the 40D. In fact I even sold the 40D grip because I didn't need it. On here it is a must. Further body issues: I hate the on/off switch. Unfortunately the 40D has the same issue. I much prefer how Nikon puts it on the top near the shutter button.LCD: LCD is so small it's pretty much useless. I hardly ever use it. Sometimes my models ask me if they can look through a session on it and I always try to talk them out of it because it is a waste of time. A picture can look flawless on that thing and then you see it on a computer screen and it's utter crap.Price: still pretty steep, considering we are near the end of the cycle. This darn thing came out in 2005! That's a generation ago in DSLR years.Ease of use: now I do want to state up front that this is really more of an issue for those people who, like me, were buying the camera as an intermediate photographer. If you were already and advanced pro of course this probably would not have mattered to you. As an intermediate or beginner photographer, forget about it. Go shoot for a few weeks and then realize that you are missing 60% of your shots. Then do as I did and hit the books, which will give you not only the knowledge to unlock the full potential of the 5D, but will also give you a deeper understanding of photography in general. I guess I should thank the 5D for making me do this.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "It's 5/5 stars for sure; but it is complicated.", "unixReviewTime": 1199491200, "reviewTime": "01 5, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A2ECT81F3TLWSL", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "K. Warkman", "helpful": [31, 32], "reviewText": "This is an excellent camera.  I upgraded from the EOS 20D which was also a great camera.  I upgraded for a couple of reasons.  The first was the Full Frame sensor.  The EOS 20D has a 1.6X crop factor which effects your lenses overall focal length.  On the EOS 5D you get the true focal length of your attached lens.  Just like film SLR cameras.  Awesome!  The one problem I've noticed with the Full Frame sensor on the EOS 5D is it is huge.  When you are changing lenses this sensor picks up every little piece of dust, dirt and fibers like a vacuum. I'm constantly cleaning the sensor with a blower.  I also had to bring it to a Canon service center. Just to remove some of the dust off the sensor that my blower could not remove.  The Canon service center was very far from my home.  (Very annoying).  I never experienced this problem with the EOS 20D.  But, the images you get from the full frame sensor are far superior to the smaller sensor on the EOS 20D.The other reason I upgraded was the larger LCD.  The 2.5' LCD screen is a nice plus.  The images look bright and sharp.Overall I love this camera.  Build, features and image quality are excellent!!!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Love the Full Frame Sensor, but......", "unixReviewTime": 1157587200, "reviewTime": "09 7, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1VVRA3P6G1TWH", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "Luving it", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "Coming from 40D, the 5D is quite similar and yet different for the better in many ways.Pro:- Better high ISO IQ, lower noise ISO 400 and up, significantly better at ISO1600 (with minimal RAW processing before conversion using DPP)- Better wide angle. Use the Sigma 12-24 on this baby and it rocks!- I am no pro, and I don't have light fall-off problem with my lenses, L or otherwise.- View finder is bigger and clearer, but not as much as I had hoped for.- Almost the same weight as 40D, same battery as 40D as well, same remote release.- Easier to clean the sensor, bigger hole and bigger area there.- Great LCD display, very accurate - which is very helpful in the field. 40D got a bigger LCD (3\" vs 2.5\") but I found the color and details on the 40D are way off.- Full frame sensor without the burden of ridiculously huge RAW file size - reasonable post processing and storage chores.Neutral:- 5D has the old menu system where all items are displayed in one long list, whereas 40D divides menu into tabs. 40D is faster but 5D is just fine.Con:- No Live-View: very important for fine macro shots.- No auto-sensor cleaning. The auto-cleaning on 40D is not perfect, but very helpful.- No user menu tab as on 40D.- No pop-up flash - which is useful for fill flash.- Internal processing is horribly slow. It struggles with each shot as reflected in the extra slow display on the LCD using a 4G SanDisk Extreme III card. On 40D the LCD shows the picture instantly.- 3 RAW per second seems to be a stretch. This one is not for action shoots for sure. But I bought it for landscape so I am not worried.Some of the issues are addressed in Mark II. But the Mk II got a huge boost in mega pixel counts - hens higher noise and far bigger file size to drag around with. To me personally, a build-in flash, a better view finder (100% instead just 96%) would be far more useful than the mega pixel count and HD video. A second CF slot would be great as well. It'd be nice if there're after-mart place where these features can be customized into the camera, like cars and bikes...Bottom line - it is great for low light and wide angles. I still stick to 40D on action and macro. At half price of the Mk II, you can't go wrong with this full frame camera.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "At 1/2 of 5D Mk II, I'd say go for it!", "unixReviewTime": 1236384000, "reviewTime": "03 7, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A3EZFFPVS34AMO", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "PD", "helpful": [17, 20], "reviewText": "There are tons of raving reviews about the amazing 5D, so no repeating all that. There is one reason the 5D is THE choice: the full frame sensor, hands down. The image quality is umatched and is super low noise BECAUSE of the larger sensor. You see it in the top end cameras costing up to eight grand, but the difference is, you get it for this incredible price. Sure, there are things that people aren't happy with on the 5D like menus and no weather sealing, but in the end, image quality is what it's all about. For landscapes and nature shots and anything else where the rich look of a medium format camera is desired, the 5D does it at a great price.Important things to know:-No pop up flash. You'd need to buy a real flash for it. Or maybe set the ISO to 1600 and get natural light images (yep, 1600, and it looks good due to: the full frame sensor!).-Flash sync at 1/200, not 1/250. If you do sports photos and hook up to the wireless flash systems in arenas, this might be an issue. For everyone else, you may not notice.-Get some big CF cards, the RAW files can get up to 15MB each.-The JPEGs don't come out all that great. Be prepared to use the RAW files and your results will be phenomenal (note: the 5D has built-in \"Picture Styles\" for JPEGs... you may get good results with that. I only use RAW).-No EF-S lenses on this camera. It only uses EF lenses (the better but more expensive ones).I can't rave enough about the image quality on this 5D. To get full frame for this price is insane, I can't imagine using cropped sensor cameras ever again. BTW, your cropped sensor cameras (20D, 30D, 40D, etc) don't turn a 200mm lens into a 320mm lens, it just crops it. Big difference in the way the background looks. You can crop your 5D image to look the same and still have the image quality of the 10MP cropped cameras. Get the 5D, you won't be disappointed!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Don't Be Fooled, the 5D is THE Way to Go", "unixReviewTime": 1204848000, "reviewTime": "03 7, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A7QT04TT3PXOP", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "PJ", "helpful": [45, 47], "reviewText": "After 3 decades as a Nikon 35mm film 'loyalist' I was tired of waiting for a 35mm sized digital sensor where I could use the 17mm focal length end of my expensive Nikkor 17-35mm lens (click on the comment bubble at the end of this review and read my clarification).  A co-worker let me test drive his Canon 5D, Canon EF 16-35mm f2.8L USM and SanDisk Extreme III 2 GB card.Viewing the images on his LCD computer screen helped me decide to sell everything Nikon and switch to the established DSLR leader, Canon.  Finally, no more heavy and bulky Nikon F5 and having to pay and wait for film processing!  No more scanning negatives for hours each night!As an owner of the 5D, XT, EF 17-40mm f4L USM, EF 70-200mm f4L IS USM with tripod collar and Canon Speedlite 580EX, the thousands of RAW images taken in ISO's ranging from 50 to 3200 with the 5D have been truly satisfying.  Note: the XT is also a winner.The 5D's image quality stunned every person I have given 4\" x 6\" and 8.5\" x11\" colour and monochrome images to.  Credit must be given to Canon's Digital Photo Professional (DPP) RAW processing software, Canon's i9900 bubblejet printer (please read my Amazon review), Canon paper and Canon ink.  I rarely have to use Adobe Photoshop CS2 anymore because of DPP's quick-to-use tools.The 5D and any one of the lenses with flash fits nicely into a Tamrac Velocity 7 bag (please read my Amazon review).  The larger Tamrac Velocity 9 bag will fit the entire 2 body with lenses and flash kit but the bag is a bit awkward (please read my Amazon review).A built-in flash would have been nice but not absolutely necessary because writing times to the CF card would have been longer delaying the next shutter release.  Also, battery life would have quicky dwindled.  Stick with the 580EX when flash is required.Bottom line:  If you believe that it costs Canon more to manufacturer a full-frame CMOS image sensor and don't mind spending several months salary on the 5D, go for it!  Also, choose your lenses carefully.  Canon L lenses go well with the 5D.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Buy it for image quality at every ISO setting", "unixReviewTime": 1156550400, "reviewTime": "08 26, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AHWBKTWFD46UI", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "Samurai Girl", "helpful": [20, 20], "reviewText": "I researched a number of digital slr cameras recently, and evaluated a number of factors before taking the plunge and going with a system. I looked at Nikon and Canon seriously, and thought about:1. full-frame v.s. crop sensor2. build quality3. pixel size4. cost-benefit ratio5. lens availabilityWhen I purchased the Canon 5D it was the only full-frame sensor at a reasonable price point. It still is! The Nikon full-frame 12 megapixel is astronomically costly, and the professional-series Canons are way, way outta my range. My verdict? Good cost-benefit ratio.(What does full frame mean? For me it meant silky, creamy images with a big dynamic range and no visual noise. Within an hour of opening the box, I had breathtaking results. My ugly dog looked charming and loveable. The flowers on the patio looked wedding-worthy. My freaking lawn furniture seemed so inviting...! I'm telling 'ya that a camera should be able to show you the world...even your familiar world in a new and exciting way...and it seems like magic that, even while learning to use the 5D, it allowed me to re-discover the beauty of my world!) Full-frame also means no conversion factor with lenses. If you loved your old 35 slr film experiences, this will be like falling in love all over again. You can get for-real wide angle, and an 85 mm portrait lens shoots true. (As for Vignetting...schmingetting...get yourself some darn software if it's a problem. You're gonna shoot the good stuff in RAW anyway, so spring for Photoshop CS3.)2. Build quality-feels substantial. I understand there aren't the weather seals that exist on the pro series, so be a little kind to your camera.3. Pixel size: the 12 plus megapixels make for amazing quality images.4. Cost-benefit: best price for the features!5. Lenses: Canon has a wide range of lenses, including the excellent fixed focal length primes. My personal faves are the 50mm and 85mm. The first gives you a \"transparent\" view of the world. The lens sees pretty much what you see, but records every detail crisply. The 85mm wide open gives the soft out-of-focus background blur called \"bokeh\" that makes everything you shoot look tender, and focusses on the details you want to capture: the whiskers on a kitten, the bright eyes of a child...all in an environment of softness. Great lenses and a lot of bang for the buck. And, Canon has a huge and growing number of image-stabilized lenses, as well as \"l\" glass super-high quality lenses.I love my 5D. It's my new best friend for gadding about town, and for \"seeing\" my world in a new way.The downside of the 5D: I wish that I were more quick and adept at changing settings. It may be partly product design, it may be partly me, but it is difficult for me to get to a comfort level with making quick decisions and changes. Fumbling with controls is not creativity. I guess though, that if I practice enough, and get familiar enough, that I will gain more competence in making quick adjustments and getting those golden shots.Final Analysis: 5D rocks. Yes, they will be developing cheaper, smarter, easier-to-set cameras with more megapixels...technology is improving all the time. But, there is such a thing as a \"sweet spot\"-and 12 plus megapixels on a full-frame seems to get it almost every time. So, go ahead, do the research, and while you are at it, consider the 5D. It's a beaut!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "My New Best Friend", "unixReviewTime": 1203552000, "reviewTime": "02 21, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A1F9Z42CFF9IAY", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "T. Tom", "helpful": [259, 287], "reviewText": "This is a great camera and brings Canon's top of the range Pro line a bit closer to amateurs. In fact, it's good enough for professional use and I know of several pros using the 5d (in addition to myself). There are 4 main advantages to the 5d:Full frame - there is no more 1.6x or 1.3x crop factor to deal with. A 50mm lens gives the same field of view as a 50mm lens on a film camera. The focal length labelled on the lens is what the body captures.Image quality - although not as many megapixels, the 5D is comparable to even to the top of the line 1dsMKII with regards to image quality. In fact, the 5D performs even better at high ISO speed ratings 800 and above than the more than double cost 1dsMKII.Large LCD Screen - the screen is much larger than on previous cameras, including the 1dsMKII. It's very 'photographic' and while it's not that bright when outdoors in the sunlight, it's quite nice and usable still.Form Factor - it has a smaller form factor than the higher pro cameras and is not very heavy. This is a plus in my book. Even if you are a pro, you don't want to necessarily look like one all the time. If you do want to look like one, you can add the optional battery grip.I would recommend this camera to anyone. I can think of zero complaints for the pro or advanced amateur photographer.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A real winning full frame camera in a nice form factor-finally!", "unixReviewTime": 1130112000, "reviewTime": "10 24, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2QNJARWTF9H89", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "William D. Colburn \"buys things on amazon far...", "helpful": [178, 232], "reviewText": "I was quite shocked that my 5D arrived in late September instead of mid October.  But happy!It doesn't shoot as fast as my 20D does, but the full frame sensor makes a tremendous difference.  I can take wide pictures!  I miss the effective telephoto effect on my longer lenses, but with cropping I still get some of that back.The viewfinder is large and bright.  And with a 24mm focal length I get a lot of wideness out of it.  The LCD is gigantic, and looks just like the 20D.  I can hold the camera at arms length and still read the menus just fine.After the 20D and its machinegun shutter, the 5D feels a little slow.  It even sounds slow when it takes a picture.Right now the cr2 files don't seem to work well in photoshop, but that should be resolved in a matter of days I hope.  The cr2 files are huge.  About 12 to 14 MB per image.  Buy several large flash cards, and a laptop with a big hard drive!The images are bigger, but the pixels are still larger in the 5D over the 20D/300D, and so much sharper.  They certainly looks sharper to me.All in all, it seems like a better, albeit slower, version of the 20D.  It doesn't take EF-S lenses, but the only one I had came on my 300D, and I sold it with the 300D.  According to the canon technical specs it has improved software from the 1 series cameras inside it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "12.8 MP Full Frame Sensor....FOR THE WIN!", "unixReviewTime": 1127952000, "reviewTime": "09 29, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2PLWER3W9YC4S", "asin": "B0007Y791C", "reviewerName": "Z8", "helpful": [13, 15], "reviewText": "Most people really don't understand photography.  If you are one of them, just buy a 5D Mk I.  Get a 5D Mk II if you want to take great movies too.The 5D MkI is better than every other DSLR for a few reasons:1.  The pixels are larger than any other professional-caliber camera2.  The sensor is full frame, 3X larger than low cost DSLRs3.  Wide angle capableThe reason 1 is important is because the more electronics (Megapixels) you cram onto the silicon, the more noise you get.  More pixels is worse in this respect, not better.  In bright light, zillions of little pixels are fine, since noise is not dominant.  But in low light, which is basically every picture with a shutter speed slower than 100th of a sec or so, noise is the primary quality consideration with digital.  The 5D takes fantastic low light pictures, because it has such a large sensor without too many MPs, and that gives you huge, light-gathering pixels.As all good photographers know, you need a flash almost all the time, especially in full sun.  The 5D's large pixels allow you to capture lots of ambient light, so harsh light from the flash doesn't dominate the scene.  This allows gorgeous bright-light scenes with fill flash, and also beautiful ambient exposures in settings as dim as a candle.The reason 2 is important is because it effectively makes your lens 3X brighter by soaking up light with 3X the sensor surface area per unit time.  High quality fast glass is incredibly expensive, so don't waste that light by projecting it around (off of) a small sensor.The reason 3 is important is because you get the largest possible rectangular crop (36mm x 24mm) out of the circular lens projection, meaning you get a much wider field of view.  This makes for wide angle capabilities there are beyond the realm of possibility for most DSLRs which have a small sensor sitting in the middle of a large lens projection.  You can buy a whole set of wider lenses for those cameras, but you lose optical quality and pay the same money in the end.  Small sensors are commonly thought to give a zoom advantage on the tele end of the lens line, but of course they don't because you can crop any picture you take with a full frame camera for the exact equivalent of what the cheaper DSLRs are doing.Nikon has countered with a full frame 12MP DSLR which meets all of the above criteria above, but I personally favor the rich colorful glass of the Canon L line.  I also perfer Canon's digital color rendering.  Both of these bodies merit strong consideration from pros and beginners alike.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best DSLR you can buy (still)", "unixReviewTime": 1261353600, "reviewTime": "12 21, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A23JKI77DNB04I", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer", "helpful": [36, 39], "reviewText": "Have used this lens for a few months now and am very happy with it.  The long reach specially with the 20D is definitely a plus.  The lens is a little slow but the IS allows you to take at 2-3 stops than normal for static subjects.  If I would rate it with 10 being best, optical quality is 8, focus speed 8, construction is 7 because of zoom creep and loud IS, price 9.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Good Lens+ Long Reach+ Price Right", "unixReviewTime": 1141257600, "reviewTime": "03 2, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AN836Z0UCY2YM", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "Andrew M", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "I bought this lens a few years ago before I got serious about photography. Since then everything else in my kit has slowly been upgraded, but I just never seem to find a good enough reason to replace the 70-300mm.The major downsides of this lens are its slightly kludgy focus with a rotating front ring, and its slightly slow aperture compared to whats available.But then the upsides:1) 3-stop image stabilizer. I can't give this enough praise. I've taken crisp photos at 300mm with 1/15s shutter speed, sharp enough to make it onto Flickr's blog.2) Lightweight - as a travel zoom you can't beat the versatility versus weight.3) Sharpness, colours and contrast are top notch. People who've seen photos from this lens have assumed I had a big white expensive lens, and are shocked when they find out.Sure it feels very flimsy and isn't weather sealed, but the reality is, mine has been to dusty game drives in Africa and air shows on a windy beach, and is still like new. For similar money one can get a 70-200mm F4L, but for me the lack of IS on a 200mm lens is a deal breaker.I've often considered upgrading to the 70-200mm f2.8L IS or 100-400mm f4.5-5.6L, or primes such as the 300mm f4, but every time have to ask myself: as a serious hobbyist (rather than a professional), can I really justify the huge expense when this is almost always good enough?", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Best Canon all-purpose zoom", "unixReviewTime": 1250035200, "reviewTime": "08 12, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A1W9V67EJC4FXB", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "B. GILLING", "helpful": [182, 199], "reviewText": "Well today I was like a kid with a new toy just got my new 70-300 mm this is my first image stabilizing lens so I was excited to try it outso i took off my 70-200 4 L probably a good lens to compare with.Well first thing is the weight it's light and inconspicuous compared to my 70-200 L with its black finish ,it feels very nice and its fast to focus, image stabilizion is excellent (Featuring the latest 3-stop Image Stabilizer for camera shake reduction) and the range is great 112mm to 480 mm on my XT Rebel.Colours and sharpnesss are a not nice as my 70-200 f4 Lbut image stabilization and weight and extra range make it very attractive , I  am happy with it would liked a pouch and hood for the money come on canon it's only a piece of plastic!see some picture unedited and some edited on my sitep.s I am not a professional.[...]", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "My first image stabilizing lens", "unixReviewTime": 1128988800, "reviewTime": "10 11, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AGXV8E7XK9J6H", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "Brian Koch \"Aspiring Photographer\"", "helpful": [13, 17], "reviewText": "This is a good zoo lens.  It is not as heavy or noticeable as something like the 100-400 L lens.  Also, with the 3 stop IS and smaller size and weight this makes a great backup lens to the 100-400 on trips or when I just don't feel like carrying around a 3+ pound lens all day.  So if you don't want to have to deal with the cost or size of an L series lens this is one of the next best options.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "There are Better, but There are More Worse", "unixReviewTime": 1146182400, "reviewTime": "04 28, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3ACJ58WZVJEML", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "Bryan Duggan", "helpful": [52, 57], "reviewText": "I bought this lens about a month ago when I purchased my Rebel XT.I was initially dissapointed by the image quality but it turned out that I actually had a bad filter on the lens. Once I removed that cheap filter the lans came to life and has blown me away!!If you read some of the forums there are actually Canon owners complaining that this lens is too good and has effectively devalued their expensive \"L\" lenses!The only negative thing that I can say about this lens is that the front element rotates while focusing, making using a circular polarizer somewhat cumbersome. The Image Stabilizer really is a technological marvel though and will leave you wondering why every lens doesn't come with it (the answer is that it adds to the weight and IS isn't cheap).This weekend was the first time the weather cooperated enough for me to try it outdoors. I went to a small local zoo and took a picture of a red fox from about 30ft away... through 2 wire fences... in sub-par lighting. I didn't expect much. The picture actually came out and is so sharp I am having it framed.Buy this lens!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "\"The hidden L lens...\"", "unixReviewTime": 1136937600, "reviewTime": "01 11, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A4WEZJOIZIV4U", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "Chuck Bittner \"Disabled comedian & gamer!\"", "helpful": [37, 47], "reviewText": "I'm going with this lens over the 75-200 f/4L lens, the IS and extra zoom are worth the sacrifice of build quality and slight sharpness increasePros:  It is light, fast, sharp and economical. It is currently my favorite carry-around lens. Adequate for birding and pseudo macro functions. Not a bad portrait lens. All of this is in the context of use with a 20D and Rebel. It is a full-frame 35 mm lens.Cons:  The lens face rotates with focus, so use of a circular polarizer is problematic. You choose MF or AF, but not both at the same time like the 100-400 L-Series.Pros:  Huge improvement on older 75-300. IS is excellent! Much more subtle in use than a white L lensCons:  No ftm. Front element rotationif your a newbie here's some infoA lens is \"fast\" when it has a low f-stop... ok so when you have a smaller number the apature is bigger which allows more light through, so this means you can up the shutter speed. and still have enough light reach the sensor.ok so lets say you have an out door shot if you have say an f/4 lens the shutter speed could be 1/250 of a second and you would get a good exposer. Now this lens can only go f/4but if you in the same outdoor setting, had an f/2.8 lens you could jump to 1/500 of a second and get the same exposer. and freeze the action mmore effectivly, this i believe is why it's a \"fast\" lens.ok have fun and get it done", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "gets a 9 out of 10 Good zoom lens.", "unixReviewTime": 1134432000, "reviewTime": "12 13, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AXBZI5KW1TKTD", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "David V.", "helpful": [51, 53], "reviewText": "I bought this lens to replace an EF 100-300mm (USM) that we had from my wife's film shooting days (not a common lens to have, apparently; the 75-300mm seems to be more widespread).  That older lens produced some surprisingly good pictures (quite sharp), but handheld shots were hard to get right at long focal lengths.The image stabilization feature of this lens works remarkably well, but it's quite a bit noisier than that of the EF-S 17-85mm IS (my first IS lens; you hardly hear the IS gyrations at all on that one).  The sharpness is quite good (probably a tad better than that of the EF 100-300mm, although it's not a foremost strength of this lens in my opinion). I was surprised by how much faster I can acquire focus with this lens, even though reviews suggested that it still falls short of L-series lenses (see e.g. the \"flying gull\" shot I uploaded to the \"customer images\" set).If you want to shoot hand-held at 150mm+, I don't think this lens has much competition under $1000 for Canon EOS users.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Fast AF, Excellent IS, good sharpness", "unixReviewTime": 1154390400, "reviewTime": "08 1, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AWEVCW9R3HOZH", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "Deluxe", "helpful": [699, 761], "reviewText": "I owned this lens' predecessor, theCanon EF 75-300mm f/4-5.6 IS.  That lens was horrible. When I read many good things about this new 70-300mm IS lens, I thought it was time to upgrade.  But, it was difficult to decide whether buy this lens or theCanon EF 70-200mm f/4L. I bought this lens and it was my mistake.While it has numerous improvements over the 75-300mm IS, there are still some shortcomings with this lens that keep it from competing with the similar-priced 70-200mm f/4L.First, starting at around 150mm-200mm and getting worse as you approach 300mm, this lens gives images that look soft (no, I'm not using any filters!).  This is not an issue of focus, but of low-cost consumer-grade optics.  You can stop the lens down and get some improvement, but then you lose your depth of field. (EDIT: The sharpness problem with my lens was the result of using it in portrait-orientation, a defect among the first batches of this lens.  Canon repaired the lens for free and it became sharper, no matter the orientation, but still not as good as the 70-200mm f/4L).Second, the focusing speed is slow.  New in this lens is variable-speed focusing; as the zoom passes 200mm, the focusing speed slows.  I assume this is to prevent the missed-focus hunting common with its predecessor.  But, this makes it harder to track moving objects and keep them in focus.Third, this lens suffers from very ugly purple chromatic aberration.  This lens really shows this problem too, in that even small bright objects develop purple halos.Finally, the lens gets larger as you zoom, the lens gets larger when you focus, the front of the lens moves when focusing, the focus ring moves when auto-focusing, the zoom retracts by itself when pointed upward (EDIT: last item was fixed by Canon during the above-mentioned service), and I'm sure there's more I'm forgetting... But none of these problems exist with the 70-200mm f/4L.This is not \"the hidden L lens\" as one reviewer said, it is nothing but a common consumer lens with a big price tag.  The IS feature is the single sole benefit.  If you have very shaky hands you might just need this lens.  If you have very steady hands, with IS you can use this lens in the dark of night (assuming you have a very still subject).  The 200-300mm range is nice in theory, but a tack-sharp photo from the 70-200mm f/4L at 200mm is going to look better cropped than a 300mm full-frame photo from this lens.If what you want is a very high quality lens that will give you sharp photos in daylight; buy the 70-200mm f/4L lens instead, it even comes with a hood.  The hood for the 70-300mm IS lens is another $40, making the 70-200mm f/4L a lower priced lens (and it even comes with a bag!).UPDATE 10/3/11: I'm now using my 70-200 f/4L with a Canon 7D and it is fantastic. I cannot fathom why people even consider this 70-300 given the economical availability of the 70/200 f/4L. The extra 100mm and IS isn't worth it given the major drawbacks of expanding size, rotating front element, plastic construction, and lack of comparative quality. You don't need IS as much as you think you do, especially if you've been taught how to shoot steady and follow the simple rule of using exposure speeds that are numerically higher than your current zoom setting (at 200mm make sure it's at 1/200 exposure time or faster).", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Not a bad lens. Better than the old 75-300mm IS, but get the 70-200 f/4L instead.", "unixReviewTime": 1138492800, "reviewTime": "01 29, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A21M71QTD44GQ1", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "fishpick", "helpful": [12, 23], "reviewText": "Here's why I give this such a low rating - the IS motor sounds like a cheese grater in the lens.  Now, I might not make a big deal about this if the kit lens on my 60D made ANY SOUND AT ALL - but it doesn't - it's silent.  NO WAY should a lens like this be THAT loud.  A click here or a light buzz there is fine - this is way beyond that.So I headed off to a local camera store after the grinding sounds to try some of these lenses in this class:At a local camera store I shot this one, the 70-300 Tamron and the 70-200 f4 L all on my 60D.To be honest - the Tamron is pretty damn close to the 70-200L in sharpness - but the L is a faster focus for sure.Point being - this lens wasn't even competing...  the images were NOT of the same quality as the Tam or the L - they were just blah.  Guys at the camera store said the same things about the shots, saw the same issues I saw.So - for those of you who are happy with this lens - great.  I found the IS morot noise to be unbelievable and unacceptable...  I don't want people looking at me thinking my camera is dead when it's just stabilizing an image...  I went with the Tamron 70-300mm from the local store and LOVE the results on the 60D (the lens correction profiles in the 60D recognize the 70-300mm Tamron).  Guess that's why they make so many - to each his own.P.S. - this lens at the camera store was also way too loud in IS mode.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Not the lens you expect from Canon", "unixReviewTime": 1314403200, "reviewTime": "08 27, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A184ZNI4K5ZSHY", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "Frank Shoemaker \"Frank\"", "helpful": [52, 53], "reviewText": "I have used a different brand 70-300mm zoom before which worked well, but it was noisy and slow to focus.  The Canon 70-300mm is absolutely silent and extremely fast in focusing, and produces absolutely outstanding photos.  So good in fact, that I have posted a few of the images under this lens for you to judge yourself.  Photos that I took at the Atlanta Zoo, under all types of lighting conditions.  The lens produced incredible photos.  All were hand-held shots, most of which were at the full 300mm range.  And the IS is incredible.  I had one photo which was taken in the shade and I was shooting with aperture priority and wide open.  I did not realize how well the IS stabilized my photo till I looked at the exif data on my Flickr site - the shutter speed was 1/10th of a second, hand-held, and at 275mm.  What more can you say about a lens, to obtain sharp photos like that.  This lens is an absolute winner for me!  For a sharp, fast, quiet lens with a tremendous zoom range, this is the next lens you want to buy!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Outstanding Lens!", "unixReviewTime": 1178841600, "reviewTime": "05 11, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AW2L32ENGKVUT", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "Inferno2ss", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "First off I should state that I am more of an average joe then a serious photographer but I love this lens.  Like anything there are some trade offs but for what I was looking for this fit the bill and more.Like everyone else I was debating between this lens and the 70/200L.  I wanted a telephoto lens and the 200 is just plain too short to be affective at taking photos of wildlife in my opinion.  To me the 300mm was still a bit short so I added the Tamaron 1.4 teleconverter and have been pleasantly surprised at the speed and quality of the shots.  I will say you need plenty of light with the teleconverter or it will hunt, the darker it gets the more it hunts.My brother has the 70/200L and last weekend at my nieces graduation ceremony he was unable to come close to capturing the shots I was able to get.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Love this lens", "unixReviewTime": 1212796800, "reviewTime": "06 7, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A1KABXWY7T7CFY", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "Jeff Streifling", "helpful": [15, 45], "reviewText": "I read every review and test I could find while deciding between this lens and the 70-200 f4 L.  In the end, I opted for stabilization and reach - big mistake.  Sharpness and color are poor on this lens and it can be very frustrating when you review your photos at the end of a trek and toss, literally, all of them.  I sold this lens at significant loss and bought a used 70-200 f2.8 L (non IS).  The difference was stunning.  There is a reason the f4 is best in its class, don't make my mistake.  You can easily crop your super sharp photos to match the reach of the 70-300.  I've since bought a used 400mm f5.6 L - even at f5.6 the L glass is so superior to other products that it is easily hand-holdable (this lens is non IS) in all but the lowest light.  Additionally, the L lenses are built like tanks!  The f4 L will not dissapoint, buy it.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Poor Choice", "unixReviewTime": 1291852800, "reviewTime": "12 9, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "AKT8TGIT6VVZ5", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "John Kwok", "helpful": [78, 82], "reviewText": "The Canon EF 70-300mm f4-5.6 IS USM telephoto zoom lens replaces the first Image Stabilizer lens of its kind, the Canon 75-300mm f4-5.6 telephoto zoom lens. It offers now up to three - as opposed to two - apertures in image stabilizing mode, as well as slightly wider focal length. The current June 2006 Popular Photography issue has a fine test report on this lens, showing that it is capable of excellent contrast and resolution in the range from 70mm to 200mm; at 300mm, both contrast and resolution decline slightly to very good, but still an excellent result for a zoom lens in this class. It is also fully compatible with Canon's digital SLR cameras (112-480mm equivalent), with improved lens coatings optimised for digital sensors. Without question this is an excellent lens for the Canon photographer interested in excellent nature and landscape photography, without resorting to a sturdy tripod to hold both the camera and lens; thus it is also quite suitable for handhold panning shots at most outdoor sporting events held under good weather conditions.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Superior Image Stabilizer Telephoto Zoom from Canon", "unixReviewTime": 1147305600, "reviewTime": "05 11, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2JE071UW97J2A", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "Kenneth Depree", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "I debated a long time before buying this lens.  I already had the Canon 55-250 and was getting pretty good shots, however, I wanted more reach.  The 400L and 600L were way out of my pricerange so my options were stick with the 55-250 or get this lens.  I did a google search re comparing this lens with the 55-250 and got lots of threads on photo forums where this was discussed.  Most comments indicated if you already had the 55-250 it was foolish to spend $400 to get the additional 50 since you could gain the same by walking a few steps closer to your subject.But walking closer is not always an option.  I enjoy photographing kiteboarders and surfers in action and walking a few steps closer means being up to my waste in water.  Likewise shooting other types of sports action you can't walk onto the playing area in order to get closer to the subjects.So I bought this lens and am very glad I did.  Now the subjects come closer to filling the frame and the photos are clearer and sharper than those taken with my 55-250.Yesterday I had an experience that would have convinced me I made a wise decision if I had any doubts.  When shooting kiteboarders I normally shoot Tv at 1/1000 because they are moving so fast and I don't want blurring.  Yesterday the wind was very good and the kiteboarders were going airborne.  I had a field day and was certain I had lots of good shots.  Until just before leaving I noticed that I was in P and had been shooting at a slower speed.  I felt almost physically sick thinking about all the good shots that I'd messed up by forgetting to switch to Tv 1/1000.  Staying and taking more was not an option because the wind had died down and the best kiteboarders had come ashore.What a wonderful surprise to upload those photos to my computer and find that even though shot between 1/395 and 1/512, more than I would have expected based on my experience with the 55-250 were keepers.  1/1000 would have been better, but the photos were sharper than had I been shooting with the 55-250 and because I was shooting RAW and the blurring was minimal, I could correct for much of what there was in post processing.This lens is definitely sharper than my 55-250.  I have confirmed this many times over as I pull together photos of kiteboarders to make a kiteboard gallery.  The photos taken with both lenses are good, but those taken with this lens are a little sharper, a little clearer, and require less post processing.And the subjects fill more of the frame, the  desire for which was a major reason for buying the lens.I like to have a hood on my lenses to prevent possible flare, however, because this lens is long I decided against the plastic-type hood I have on other lenses.  Instead, I purchased a rubber lens that you can collapse.  It is not as deep as the plastic hood for this lens so doesn't make the lens appear excessively long when in use, and because it collapses it takes up less space in the camera bag.Finally, I'm using the lens on a Canon T2i, which is smaller than most of the other Canon SLRs.  However, I have a battery pack, which makes the camera larger and provides more places to hold it.  If it were not for the battery pack, I believe this lens would be difficult to manage on the T2i because of its length and weight; the weight is about the same as the camera without the battery pack.  It is noticeably longer and heavier than the 55-250, which is a better size for the camera without a battery pack.  So if you are thinking of using this lens on a T2i, I suggest you also consider getting a battery pack so that the lens is attached to a larger, heavier camera than is the case without the battery pack.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Beats My 55-250", "unixReviewTime": 1327795200, "reviewTime": "01 29, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "A35I7GABPT64Z2", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "L. Dippold", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I needed a longer telezoom for a zoo photography class, and had narrowed options to this lens, theTamron AF 70-300mm f/4.0-5.6 SP Di VC USD, and theCanon EF 70-200mm f/4L USM. I was strongly tempted by the prospect of owning L quality glass, especially at this price point, but really wanted IS (or VC as Tamron calls it); I didn't want to feel like I'd always need to carry my monopod/tripod with me, or that I *had* to use a large aperture to ensure a faster shutter speed. And, to be honest, 200mm maximum focal length won't cut it in most zoos, so I'd also need to invest in a teleconverter. Not to mention, once you factor in the cost of a good quality teleconverter, well, you may as well just look at theCanon EF 70-300mm f/4-5.6L IS USM--and while I did seriously look at that lens and test it out, the price point is really beyond what I want and need.That left me with this lens, and the Tamron. After pouring over dozens of review sites, I ended up ordering both. I just couldn't decide. This lens arrived first, and I'll admit--I was disappointed by the first shots. I generally shoot with primes (Canon EF 50mm f/1.4andCanon EF 85mm f/1.8 USM), and this lens just seemed to lack that visual punch I'd gotten used to. Then the Tamron arrived, and unfortunately, it was a dud. Many technical reviews suggest that the Tamron can outperform this lens--if you get a good copy. But for whatever reason, quality control seems to be a real issue for the third party lens manufacturers. But time was of the essence, so I decided to put this Canon lens through its paces at my zoo photography class.And boy, am I glad I did. I was pleasantly surprised--wowed, really--by what this lens could do when I gave it a real chance. So even though I wasn't thrilled with this lens at first impression--it certainly wasn't a case of love at first sight--it's become a keeper. It's probably not for everyone (there are many who argue the best option would have been to go with the 70-200 L + a teleconverter, or to suck it up and just get the 70-300 L), but it works for me.***After a month of use, I'll update this and add--I finally did a bit of pixel creeping comparing this lens to the 70-300 L that I tested out. The L seems to have a slightly better (more effective) IS system, but for my purposes I found it very difficult to distinguish between the image quality of the two lenses--even at the max focal length of 300mm. If I were a pro and intending to sell my photographs with the potential of blowing them up at a very massive scale, then the L would hands down be the better choice. But for me, and probably most people (your average consumer, prosumer, or serious amateur/hobbyist), this older version is an excellent lens. There's a reason many people, for years, called this the secret L--because it can really perform if you let it. I think that warrants adding the fifth star.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Wasn't Thrilled at First, But It Grew on Me", "unixReviewTime": 1367020800, "reviewTime": "04 27, 2013"}
{"reviewerID": "AN3ZGGQSZKWBN", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "L. Woods \"Woods\"", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "This lens is great- I purchased it for wedding photography and it goes the distance. The image stabilizer is the best asset and it does drain the battery so keep an extra on hand!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "getting down the aisle", "unixReviewTime": 1168300800, "reviewTime": "01 9, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1ZM846Y7AUYD", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "M. Pickering", "helpful": [30, 31], "reviewText": "When purchasing my new Canon EOS 40D I wanted to get an additional lens that would add an extended zoom range from the 28-135mm lens that came in the kit.  I had a budget of $2,500.00 for a digital SLR camera, hot shoe flash, additional lens, memory card, and a large gadget bag.  I wanted to purchase the best quality camera that I could get, so I had decided to purchase the EOS 40D by Canon (kit with 28-135mm lens), but that meant that I would have to sacrifice money spent on the other accessories.  I purchased a 4GB Sandisk Extreme III CompactFlash card, and the Canon Speedlite 580EX II flash with the camera, so that meant I had roughly $675.00 for another lens and a nice camera/gadget bag.  I researched the Canon EF lenses extensively and decided that I had to have a lens with image stabilization.  I wanted a Canon lens and wanted it to have a large zoom range.  All reviews I read pointed to the Canon EF 70-300mm f/4-5.6 IS USM lens as a solid choice.I ordered this lens from Amazon and got a great price, and with free shipping.  The first thing I noticed is that this lens is lightweight and feels very well made.  The light weight did concern me a little, because I typically process the thought of lightweight electronics gear with cheap build quality.  Well I am convinced that this Canon lens does NOT suffer from cheap build quality.  The lens feel solid, and the focus and zoom rings are not sloppy at all.  The auto focus is fairly fast (although it can be a little slower in the highest zoom range), and the image stabilization works great.  As others have pointed out, this lens produces a somewhat softer looking image above the 200mm range.  However, the contrast and color remains sharp, even at maximum zoom.  If you don't mind giving up some depth of field by adjusting the aperture, you can get very clear images at the full 300mm.My biggest complaints with this lens are as follows:-  The end of the lens rotates when focusing, which causes the constant need to adjust my circular polarizer.-  The zoom changes the length of the lens.-  If you tip the camera at a sharp verticle angle, the zoom adjustment of the lens will retract on its own.-  Auto focus becomes slower at higher zoom setting.-  Having the lens set to AF prevents you from fine tuning the focus manually (there seems to me a mechanical, gear-type lock of the focus ring when AF is engaged)Overall I am extremely happy with this lens, even with the few shortcomings mentioned above.  The auto focus is accurate and fairly fast, the IS feature is rock solid, and the light weight of this lens makes it very good for handheld shots and does not cause balance issues when using a monopod or tripod.  Although I have noticed some minor softness in photos above 200 or 250mm, my pictures always look clear and contain excellent contrast and color.  I'm sure you could get better results from a Canon professional lens, which would cost you well over a grand for this kind of zoom range, but for the average hobby photographer I think this lens is about as good as you can get; and it can be had for under $600.  I am confident that this Canon EF 70-300mm lens will last for many years to come, and I would definately buy it again.  I hesitate to recommend this lens for a professional photographer, but for everyone else it is an excellent choice.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "A Powerful, Versatile Lens for Consumer Grade Digital SLR Cameras", "unixReviewTime": 1201132800, "reviewTime": "01 24, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A2WK408XIKT1OO", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "M. Whalen", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "Although there are a few small minor issues with this lens, for the most part it is well worth the money, the IS works remarkably well and I have taken some extremely sharp photos with it and my Rebel XTi. The 70-300 range is versitle and I have even taken very clear shots of the moon, wildlife and far away scenery. The negatives have to do mostly with its construction: The fully extended lens is very long, especially with the hood. Oh yeah, the hood was an extra $30+ :( ; The barrel wobbles a bit and sometimes it can't autofocus at 300mm. The barrel also rotates when focussing which makes it difficult to use a circular polarizing filter. In spite of these flaws I would recommend the lens as a really good consumer grade product. I use this lens with a Canon close-up lens sometimes to get awsome macro shots. I have a 1.4X teleconverter on the way that will extend its range to 420mm (672mm on the XTi). I will update this review after trying the teleconverter.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Very Good Telephoto zoom for the money", "unixReviewTime": 1173744000, "reviewTime": "03 13, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2DQVO87OFSLCP", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "peb", "helpful": [15, 15], "reviewText": "I have owned this lens for 11 months now and I highly recommend it. Its my most used lens and I have taken some really nice photos with it. Here is my take....It handles well on my rebel xti. There is ample space on the barrel to rest it on my left hand and get a nice weight balance, and still turn the big grippy zoom ring. The zoom ring is easy to turn but not loose. Although the focus ring turns during auto-focus its out of reach from my hand. You can reach the IS switches easily by feel without looking. You have to press them a bit to get them to move, but it is impossible to accidently switch them. The AF/MF switch is hard to get to, but I don't MF that much anyway. The build quality is solid and typical of a canon mid-range/non-L lens.AF is fast and accurate. It does have a habit of hunting at 300mm if focus is way off to start with. All other focal lengths are fine. AF noise is very quiet but not silent like my EF 17-40L.The Image stabilization (IS) is excellent!!! If you have good handholding technique you can get blur free (or close enough) still photos to 1/30th second at any focal length. If your hand holding technique is sloppy IS won't help as much. IS really adds to the versatility of this lens.The image quality is great. The images are sharp at any focal length. (I mostly shoot around F4-5.6). The bokeh (quality of the blur) is very smooth, and better than my 50mm 1.8 which can be a bit \"nervous\" at times. Colors and contrast are good.I am glad I bought this lens instead of the EF 70-200 F4 L non-IS. The L has better build, and (the consensus is) better image quality. But I have never thought, \"Dang, I wish this lens was sharper or was built better\". But I have thought \"Boy, I'm so glad I have image stabilization right now\" and \"I'm glad my lense is less conspicous than the larger white L lense\". I really think that the image quality differences will not be noticed by most people, and can easily be swamped by technique.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent Lens", "unixReviewTime": 1235692800, "reviewTime": "02 27, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A1HT17YFIOYZVQ", "asin": "B0007Y794O", "reviewerName": "pveman", "helpful": [244, 257], "reviewText": "After debating between this and the 70-200 L series I decided to purchase this lens.  I have been pleasantly surprised by the results.  I also own the 17-85 and the 50mm 1.8 lenses and I have found that I have gotten the \"most pleasing\" results from this lens.  The pictures have been very sharp from my 20D - even in the 200mm - 300mm range.  I've also been happy with the quality of the bokeh.The primary drawback I see is that the AF tends to hunt a fair amount when confronted with low contrast images.  That being said, I used it for some flying bird shooting at the wildlife refuge and was surprised to see how many of the shots were in sharp focus.  However, it was a little bit of all or nothing.  Several shots were also wildly out of focus.  Since the lens is fairly slow to focus, you never know what you're gonna get with such a fast moving object against the distant sky.I had much more consistent results when shooting soccer, softball and football in the park.  The AF speed did not present an issue for any of these activities and the results were excellent.I wish the lens were a little less expensive but I the prints I have gotten from my 13 X 19 printer have been worth the extra money.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Quite happy with the lens", "unixReviewTime": 1142899200, "reviewTime": "03 21, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3SVYWA9O1KUQV", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "Alan \"Choklat Luvr\"", "helpful": [23, 23], "reviewText": "Let me start by saying that I'm coming to the iPod Nano from the world of flash MP3 players, this is my first iPod because I was waiting for Apple to make a decent flash MP3... and they've finally done it! So here are the things I love about my iPod Nano after about a month of use:1) Making playlists on iTunes, this is a wonderful feature that you just don't find outside the iPod world!2) Beauty, the iPod Nano is without doubt the sexiest MP3 player alive today. Apple really knows how to make beautiful products.3) Sound is great.4) Love that click wheel thing, another great idea by Apple.5) Beautiful big color display makes navigation easy and fun.6) Good battery life.I know much of that is old hat to the iPod world, but for me coming from a world of Muvo's and iAudio these are wonderful features. Now for the bad news, why I didn't give the Nano a 5:1) Fragile!! Doesn't Apple understand that part of the appeal of a flash player is ruggedness? I'm scared to take this thing outside or even put it in my pocket without protection.. I immediately went out and spent another $30 for a decent case which leads to2) Where are the accessories? My iAudio's and Muvos came with cases and lanyards and armbands. iPod Nano: nothing!! The most expensive player I've bought to date and the one most in need of a protective case and I have to go and spend an extra $30 for what should have been included!In summary, this is a wonderful product and a delight to use and behold. However, Apple does need to get a clue about durability and accessories imho!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Fragile... yet Beautiful!  A review by a non-iPodder", "unixReviewTime": 1133049600, "reviewTime": "11 27, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3F1VMAU8SBNYA", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer \"baroque recorderist\"", "helpful": [16, 18], "reviewText": "When I am walking to work, listening to music on my iPod, all is well.  But to adjust it, I must get it out of the protective cocoon I have devised.  Just like so many other folks, I proudly handed my new iPod to friends and family the first day I got it.  Then I looked at it -- Ugh!  It looked like I dragged it along a sidewalk for a mile by the headphones.  I went to Decalgirl and got some skins to cover it -- but too late.  It is not ruined but....How does Black Nano work?  Well, the synching with iTunes, etc., works fine.  And the sound is OK but I agree with others that anyone interested should look seriously at the Mini.  The Mini is tough, has loads of accessories (including cases!), and works well.And finally -- when is Apple going to ship a complete product?  For $250, the Nano should come with decent headphones, a travel/home charging kit, and, most of all, a protective case.  If Apple had any sense they'd throw in $10 worth of iTunes songs as an intro to that service.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Itchy and Scratchy", "unixReviewTime": 1129593600, "reviewTime": "10 18, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2ACJ55JHHJ3FU", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer", "helpful": [17, 20], "reviewText": "This device is fantastic.  It holds a ton of music... 1000 songs is quite enough room to enjoy a whole genre of music (and I have +10k Mp3's)... it is very sleek in design, and quite small, and nano like...so a quick Pro and Con:Pro:1.  Small.  This is great to throw into your pocket (but put in a case!)2.  Menu's on the Nano are really easy to use, and has a lot of options that are not useless... calander is nice.. as well as the clock.. but the most attractive is the ease of use for getting to your music.  A slow monkey could figure this one out.3.  Good/Great sound.  This device has good pump to it.  Not much else to say other than that...4.  Battery... well, this is a pro and a con... the battery is adverted as something like 18 hours.  There is no way you can get even close to that.  I get like 6 hours top.  And, even though apple once again lied about the battery life (I have owned four other Ipods of which never made any of their adverted battery lives) 6 hours is still very good amount.  -what gets me is this... I can't figure out why it is that the nano doesn't get 18 hours.. I mean, there is no moving parts... the screen is nice, but it isn't that super bright.. and it is small... hmmm.5.  Flash memory.  I have always... always.. been a major fan of flash memory ever since I first read about it a couple of years ago.  This has made the nano a big time operator in the field of Mp3's.6.  It looks great.  Why do all the other Mp3 players look like they were made in a 198o's communist country?  They are way ugly.  WAY WAY UGLY.  Matter of fact, apple is not all that great in the internal design or ruggedness of thier iPods.. I have replaced 3 of the four I have bought.. so they stinko when it comes to durability - but they look so much nicer than the way ugly stuff offered by Dell, or any of the other ones (creatives stuff is just missing a gene)... Sony is supposed to have a model out using flash, but have not seen it yet.. lets hope they can construct something that is not just way ugly.  So, apple whups up on the competition in many areas, but one area is the appearance of the product... Who wants to spend 200 dollars on something that looks like S$$T??  Not me.  And apparently not millions of other people.Cons.1.  Battery, see what I wrote above.  Like I said earlier, it is enough battery for me at 6. hours.....  but it would have been nice if it would have got close to the adverted battery life ...2.  It is prone to scratchness and difficult fingerprinting.  But, having read about that, I bought a case... and the fingerprints are hard to remove.. which is annoying... materials could have been better chosen I think...3.  I think the usb could have been  used better.  Not crazy about the hook up at the bottom of the nano.. why not just regular USB hook up, instead of this crazy wide thing?  Silly.  The Hook up on the shuffle is superior to this.  but o well.Overall a great device, but not five star.  I like it a lot, and when I get through with it, I will most likely toss it in the bin and get another.UPDATE**************I bought the case/skins from Apple.  They came in a case of five, and I picked out the lime green one to put on.  It was skin SKIN SKIN tight.  Very hard to get on, but once it was on, it was very sleek.  Actually, when you show someone the nano, you will have to tell them that the case is already on, it is that tight.  And, it is rubberish... and grabs the hand when you touch it.. very good to keep it from slipping out of your hand, etc... when moving.  I really REALLY recommend these cases, due to them protecting it, and over all 'cool' factor.  I place mine in my pocket and have had no issues with the case on it.++++++++++++Another UPDATE ++++++++++++I liked the apple skins, they were nice... but my wife went out at christmas and bought me and INCASE case for my ipod, and it is vastly superior to any case I have had for any of my iPods, and I have had four of them.  So, do yourself a favor, and protect your iPod with Incase cases.  They are under 30 dollars and are made of leather and are quite rugged.  Have had mine since Xmas o5 and it is March o6 now, and no signs of wear as of yet.  Quite good.Have fun", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Very Delicate MP3 Device that is way cool", "unixReviewTime": 1131062400, "reviewTime": "11 4, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1C3QC8IYNJLJ0", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "A. Norris", "helpful": [22, 23], "reviewText": "Apple has announced new nano models, and one of them is an 8 GB version for the SAME price as the previous 4 GB version. The case is now to made of anodized aluminum -- eliminating the complaint of scratches. Longer battery life, too.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "This is a fine piece of gadgetry BUT WAIT!", "unixReviewTime": 1158105600, "reviewTime": "09 13, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3GKOMCQTTWPUI", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "David Foskin \"SneakyGoblin on XBL\"", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "Coming in two varieties; a 2Gb and 4Gb model both are available in black or white. However using the mini name just wasn't going to cut it and this device is amazingly small. Think two iPod shuffles but only flatter and weighing a svelte 42 grams and you start to get the picture.The casing is split in two sections, the iconic silver backing found on all the iPod models and depending on your model either a shiny white cover or shiny black cover. Apple has opted to make the click wheel themselves this time and that means that it's a rougher texture than iPod users will be used to. As to whether that's a good thing or not, we think this actually helps.Concerns over the scratchability of the player are rightly so and I would recommend anyone thinking of buying one to invest in some sort of protection from day one. I took it out of the packaging, put it in our pocket with some change and a mobile phone. Five minutes later I took it out again and it already had a faint scratch on it.Connecting to iTunes, users will be able to opt for the same experience as previous iPod models and there is even an Autofill option that will randomly fill your iPod with tunes from your collection if you've got too many to fit on the 2Gb or 4Gb offering.2Gb will get you around 500 songs and 4Gb 1000 tracks as long as they aren't all 13 minute John Coltrane numbers.Because of the photo-viewing element, you can also sync the nano with iPod Photo on an Apple Mac. As with previous models you can opt to sync your entire photo collection or specific rolls or albums.The main cause of amazement is that the nano has a screen built in such a small and thin device. Taking a leaf out of the iPod Photo, the nano features a bright colour screen, if not a bit on the small size, but still able to view image you've transferred via your computer.Digital photographers however will be upset to hear that the Apple Digital Camera connector doesn't work on the nano nor can you get a cable to be able to view the images on a nearby television. Viewing back you images on the screen is more likely to be a reference option rather than something worth straining your eyes over.Those bored of the music can head over to the in-built games, challenge themselves at their own music collection with the music quiz, play miniature solitaire or even bricks - Apple's version of Breakout.VERDICTThere is no doubt that this is going to be one of those must have devices if you haven't already signed up for the iPod revolution. The sleekness of the device means it will garner oohs and aahs from all over, heck Mrs Pocket-lint got excited by the smallness of the box it came in let alone the player itself.What makes this a winning combination is the iTunes software and how easy it is to use. Okay so the catches are that you will be tied into Apple's iTunes Music Store and the Apple file format for the foreseeable future, but when it's this good, who cares?Our final and most important piece of advice however to any would be buyer; make sure you get a protective case from day one, else your shiny new toy will have more scratches on it than a funky renegade dj's record collection.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Very classy...", "unixReviewTime": 1132531200, "reviewTime": "11 21, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AYTGG6XTVUG7G", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "Douglas A. Greenberg", "helpful": [58, 60], "reviewText": "I bought a 4GB Nano because I wanted a flash player I could use while exercising, but that's not the only reason.  I also was curious about why the iPod in its various permutations has become such a cultural phenomenon.  I'm an older guy who can remember when the only \"portable player\" was a small Japanese transistor radio, so I've seen a lot of changes in audio technology during my lifetime.  The original Sony cassette Walkman was revolutionary in its day; the first portable cd players, with their virtually nonexistent antiskip functions, were considered a marvel. We've come a long way, baby.For years now I've been content to use a good-quality portable cd player for my on-the-go music, along with Etymotic ER-4P canalphones, a tiny, twin earplug-like device that makes the headphones packaged with any commercial portable seem laughable by comparison.  In the past few years, however, I have watched as the \"iPod revolution\" totally transformed the world of tiny audio, to the point where it's now virtually impossible to find a portable cd player with good sound quality. Portable digital players rule!So I decided, what the hey, I'll give this new technology a try! I bought my Nano, along with a small leatherette case to ward off the apparently inevitable scratches this player suffers if you don't cover it up with something protective.  Proving that you can, in fact, teach an old dog new tricks, I quickly learned how to use the iTunes software, and I began loading my cd's onto my computer hard drive and, in turn, into my Nano's flash memory.Two weeks into this Brave New World of Nano, my verdict is mostly positive, but definitely mixed.  First of all, this thing is, indeed, FUN.  Having a tiny, card-like device packed with hundreds of songs (or classical \"movements\") induces a definite feeling of power and control.  At your fingertips!  The fact that you can create \"playlists,\" add or remove music quickly using the  provided USB connection cord, and adjust the EQ with a just a few touches of the \"clickwheel,\" induces near-giddiness sometimes. The battery life is impressive; it's not the 14 hours Apple claims, but it's lengthy enough that one seldom has to worry about the battery running down unexpectedly.I haven't loaded any digital photos, podcasts or audiobooks, but hey, I feel good knowing that I can!So indeed, I think I understand why people are so smitten with this little gem of a device.  HOWEVER--the news isn't all good, and the most significant \"bad news\" involves what I consider to be the bottom line for any device that plays music, i.e., the sound quality. Most people \"rip\" and encode their music either as Mp3 or AAC files.  By eliminating what is considered \"less important\" music information, these compression systems allow digitized versions of musical files to be far smaller than the full versions represented most commonly by WAV files.  It's through the use of file compression that one can fit the advertised \"1000 songs\" on a 4GB Nano.Although some fans of compressed formats swear that no human being can tell the difference between compressed and uncompressed musical formats, don't believe it.  The old saying, \"there's no such thing as a free lunch\" definitely applies here. Fortunately, you can choose to eschew file compression by navigating into the iTunes software and selecting to encode music using \"Apple lossless format.\" All iPod owners actually should do this at least once, encoding the same song using both AAC and \"lossless\" technology, so that they can discern whether the difference is significant to them.  To me, it is, so for much of my music I have chosen to use the \"lossless\" format, meaning that I don't get nearly as many minutes of music on my Nano as I would have using AAC.But the fact is that even using \"lossless\" format, the sound quality is not quite equal to that exhibited by even a fairly inexpensive portable cd player. I'm probably nitpicking here, but prospective buyers of this device should know that one is, in fact, trading audio quality for small size, convenience, and design \"cool.\"  Caveat Emptor.Two more points regarding sound quality: first, those distinctive white earbuds that are packaged with the player are not bad by  \"included in the box\" standards, but their rendition of sound is mediocre.  Anyone who really cares about sound quality should save up to buy a better set of earphones.  If you truly care about sound, bite the bullet and buy some Ultimate Ears Super fi 5 Pro in-ear monitors (they apparently were engineered with the iPods in mind) or a pair of the new Shure earbuds that are also excellent.  These will seem incredibly expensive, but if you listen to a lot of music, it's an investment that definitely will prove worthwhile over a period of several years.Second, keep in mind that the software/firmware that drive the iPods has limitations that some users will find irritating. Yes, I'm an Old Guy, but over the years I've developed an affection for certain kinds of electronic, nonstop dj mixes of dance music, the kind in which one song blends seamlessly into another. I also still listen to the Grateful Dead, well known for their ability to segue from one tune to the next.  And keep in mind that even some more mainstream \"pop\" artists, including the Beatles, have utilized the nonstop blending of tracks in their albums.Well, the iPod can't handle nonstop. It invariably inserts a small gap in between tracks, even if one is not intended.  You can minimize this using the \"crossover playback\" function, but this really is not a satisfactory solution.  You also can record cd's as one joined track, but then you lose the iPod's celebrated display of individual track names.  In fairness, this is an issue that seems universal among digital players (with the exception of the now-discontinued Rio Karma 20 gb player).  But until Apple comes up with a firmware upgrade that addresses this issue, the lack of \"gapless playback\" will continue to indicate that in some ways the new, hip digital players actually represent a movement backward in sound reproduction technology.Overall, the victory of tiny digital players over previous formats, including CD, represents the triumph of convenience and cool, with sound quality apparently emerging as a secondary consideration for nearly all buyers. So I confess: there's a part of me that's bothered by the fact that in today's world, style, image, cool, and technology-as-fashion-accessory has become more important than actual sound quality in the marketing success of portable audio devices.  I know, I'm a curmudgeon; I can't help it.To conclude: on balance, I like my Nano, and I use it almost every day.  When I want to hear music as it was intended to be heard, however, I use my old iRiver SlimX cd portable (no longer made).", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Hip and cool and fun, but sound quality is secondary", "unixReviewTime": 1131062400, "reviewTime": "11 4, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1ORUSHRRG0VWN", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "F. A. Soares", "helpful": [10, 14], "reviewText": "I have had my iPod Nano for about a week now and I really like it.  My first impression of it was how small it was.  Small enough but not to small, they struck a good balance with the Nano.  The screen is a very resolution so it can show more information than the larger screen on the mini, not to mention that it's also in color.  The sound quality is great and it has a very good range of volume levels.  This player is another good one from Apple and an improvement over the mini.  My only problem I have with Nano is that any finger prints shows up on the black surface and the shiny metal back.  The black surface is very easy to scratch. But overall a great product.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I love it", "unixReviewTime": 1127001600, "reviewTime": "09 18, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "ARVD6Y9Z1E4D4", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "G. Kline \"art & technology\"", "helpful": [40, 51], "reviewText": "UPDATE:I have ended up buying an iPod Nano afterall.  My first review was from my initial experience and what I learned from a few other owners.  But after getting a chance to use one for a full day, I came to realize that some of my earlier complaints about the Nano needed revisiting and so I decided it was time to buy it (note: the $50 extra for 2 more Gb is worth it!)#1: Durability - overall, the unit is well made. The \"click wheel\" is smaller than the standard iPod, but still works as well. It is a very small device, so it is easy to drop it. I have heard it is fragile upon dropping onto a hard surface. Also, the shiny surfaces are scratch prone (both the glossy plastic front and the chrome back). So the best way to avoid these kinds of problems is to cloak the Nano in a casing of your choice (see below). Once you do that, you're good to go.#2: Form factor - it really is \"just right\".  It's small enough to fit in your pocket and yet large enough to hold comfortably in your hand.  I'd actually prefer it to be slightly thicker and accommodate 8Gb!  But for what Apple did with this device design, I have to applaud them.  It is solid feeling, yet light enough to strap on your arm and not really notice it is there (great for the gym or running!).  The iPod Nano will display album art, but the screen is a bit on the small side... I made my own album images for my songs (300x300, so you see them well, easily found on the Internet by searching Google Images) and associated them with my music in iTunes.  When you load the songs onto your iPod, the images automatically go with them.#3: Cost - Comparatively speaking, $249 for a 4Gb MP3 player is STEEP, considering what the unit delivers and the sparse included accessories.  When you go out and buy a protective case and other necessary items, like a USB POWER ADAPTER so you can charge the iPod when not connected to a computer (yep, can you believe they don't give you this?), a DOCK (they give you the CABLE only!), and upgraded headphones (if you find the earbuds annoying), the cost will add up to quite a hefty sum if you buy the accessories from Apple.  I've found good non-OEM accessory makers out there (check closely on auction websites), so you can definitely do better.#4: Sound quality - Overall, it's very good (depending on your environment, sound file quality, and ear sensitivity).  Most MP3 players do not send relatively much power to the headphone jacks, so they give you cheap ones to mask this.  The default earbuds with the Nano are OK--certainly good enough for a workout session in a noisy gym.  But if you're an audiophile and require top grade sound all the time, you may be disappointed.  I recommend testing out the Nano in the Apple store with your own preferred earbuds/headphones to judge for yourself.  I bought a nice set of over-the-ear headphones that the Nano drives reasonably well.  I am considering getting a portable headphone amplifier for long trips, though.#5: File management - you have to use iTunes to get songs onto your iPod.  That's ok--iTunes is a decent music management program.  However, it works seamlessly ONLY if you use Apple's proprietary AAC encoding.  This will take all of your MP3 files and convert them to AAC, then load them into the iTunes library.  The file size is a little smaller, but the sound quality is not consistently good.  To convert files back to MP3 format, you'll find a noticeable sound quality loss.  Personally, I REFUSE to lose music portability and so I'm sticking with MP3 format.  In order to do this, you have to sacrifice the iTunes synchronization feature.  I think this may also explain why when copying songs onto my iPod via playlists, I end up getting duplicate songs--the iPod does not seem to know how to link an incoming playlist to songs that may already be on the iPod.  Very annoying.  I find I have to periodically clear my Nano and completely reload.  But that's OK--even with the 4Gb Nano, it's not a very long time to reload it.#6: Battery life - I have to say that this is the first device I've had that has a very even power meter display.  Most of the time battery powered devices (like cell phones) will indicate a full charge for a long time and then drop off quickly.  The Nano power meter diminishes very evenly.  In fact, when the meter hits the \"red\" zone, your iPod can go for another 3-4 hours.  I conducted my own power test--I fully loaded the Nano and let it play from a full charge.  At the end of 12 hours, it was done.  Ok, not the 14 hours that Apple claims, but close enough.  Keep in mind, this was undisturbed playing and at 3/4 volume level.  The backlight of the Nano takes up a lot of power, so I keep mine set to a 2 second shut off (the default is 10 seconds).ACCESSORIES:  If you plan to use the Nano for working out, I recommend getting a case that will allow you to strap it to your arm.  I bought a silicone-gel kind of case for the nano that has openings in the back for a velcro strap.  Works great!  Definitely get a wall charger (so you can charge the Nano independently of your computer).  And if you want to use your iPod with a stereo system or to have it propped up nicely on your desk, get a docking station.  I have a friend that bought a car FM transmitter for the iPod so he can play it through his stereo--it works pretty well.I really do like the Nano.  But I have to admit that I have a few grudges:  the tiny 1.5\" screen (I think 2\" should have been possible), the lack of a brightness control (the Nano becomes a flashlight in the dark it is so bright--unnecessary, as I'd rather save the power), tiny storage for what you get (an 8Gb chip should fit in this form factor), and lack of built-in features like FM receiver and direct memory card file transfers.  I bought my Nano primary for exercise, with the intention of getting a larger PMP (portable media player) for storing my complete collection of music as well as favorite photos.  It's important to set aside the Nano \"coolness\" factor and really look at this device for what it should deliver on FOR THE PRICE.  If your main purpose for getting an MP3 player is to hear music during workouts, and you don't need a large library of music with you when traveling, then the Nano may appeal to you.  However, if you are ok with the standard iPod size, I recommend going with a full size iPod or a Creative Labs device (Nomad Zen or Zen Vision).TIP:  When you first get the Nano, utilize the protective film already on the front as a screen protector, by trimming it in between the screen and the click wheel (your case will protect the rest).  If you do it carefully, the film will remain nicely in place without air bubbles and will last a good long while.  Eventually, after the film acquires enough scratches, buy the screen protector film readily on the market!", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "4Gb iPod Nano is pricey, but may be worth it (read on)...", "unixReviewTime": 1133222400, "reviewTime": "11 29, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3PMPV0GJ78MA1", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "Jimmy the meek", "helpful": [18, 21], "reviewText": "This isn't going to be long and boring because everything good/bad has been said so far. Good - size, flash memory, photo ability, etc..  Bad - I got black and it scratches VERY easily! I only had it 2 days and from carrying it in my pocket, the front looks very scratched like I had it a few years already.  Also, don't know why they put the headphone jack on the bottom ... and so far there's no belt clip for this.  Only a lanyard headphone or an armband.  I need a belt clip for the gym.Anyway, the sound ...I only listen to my players CRANKED!  Every MP3 player I've ever bought, including my previous 3 ipods, I listen to at full volume.  So, just to test, I got my 6 gb ipod mini and put it side by side with my new Nano.  I started \"Walk\" by Pantera simultaneously on both players and took my best pair of headphones going back and forth from one player to the other.  Well, the new Nano BLEW AWAY my 6 gb ipod!  Noticeably louder, deeper bass, and my favorite, much sharper and higher treble!  I hate to admit it, but it makes my 6 gb mini sound like crap. (Hello ebay!) I can't comment on the battery life yet at that volume, but I'm sure it will be much shorter than the 14 hours they say.But if you buy this player for no other reason ... buy it for the SOUND!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "What nobody has mentioned yet ... SOUND!!!", "unixReviewTime": 1126915200, "reviewTime": "09 17, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A174ATN0RIDJCC", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "John Smith", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "Without a doubt, iPod Nano is a big improvement from iPod Mini. I sold my Mini the day Nano came out. Here are my bullet point cons and prosObvious Pros (that everyone already knows)* Much smaller* Color screen. The screen is very bright and much more pleasurable to navigate around compared to Mini.Not So Obvious Pros* Robust. Because Nano uses flash memory as opposed to hard drives in regular iPod or Mini, Nano is immune to shock. I dropped it from my shoulder height while playing, and the music played as usual. And there is nothing wrong afterward* Transfer speed. Again, because of the flash memory, Nano is able to transfer files 1.5x faster than MiniCons* Very vulnerable to scratch (especially the black version). I keep the protective plastic at the front, plus a self-made paper wrap to protect it.* Expensive accessories. Speaking of protective wrap, the currently available ones are way overpriced. That is why it led me to make one from paper myself.* Incompatible accessories with Mini. Because of the removal of the extra hole near the head phone plug, many Mini accessories are incompatible with Nano. One noticeable one is Griffin iTrip (the FM transmitter). I guess accessory manufacturers will come up with more Nano accessories over time.* Slightly shorter battery life than Mini. 14 hours v.s. 18 hours (official numbers). However, I have no problem with that 4 hours difference.I like it a lot, but I have to give it a 4 stars for all the cons. I suggest you buy the 4 GB version instead of the 2 GB. For extra $50 you get twice as much the space. And if you plan to bring it when you travel, and you don't have/want to bring your laptop, then you better buy an AC converter for recharging, as it is not included in the box.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "A great leap forward", "unixReviewTime": 1130198400, "reviewTime": "10 25, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1KCG5U4HAB66U", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "J.W.", "helpful": [11, 12], "reviewText": "I purchased the nano from my local Fry's electronics.  4gig, black.  I'm using it with a 1Ghz Powerbook G4 15\" 10/10/1000 ethernet, DVI, but NOT USB 2.0...  which poses a problem because the Nano does not support sync via firewire.(although it can be charged over firewire)The lack of firewire, my only real complaint about the nano, and aside from that, there is very little to find fault in aside from an overly bright screen (see below).  I've overcome the lack of firewire compatability by upgrading my laptop to USB 2.0 through the purchase of a $24 USB 2.0 PCMCIA card from Fry's.  For about the same cost as what I would have had to pay for the firewire cable anyway (if it were useful for anything other than charging) I have a PCMCIA card that provides compatability in addition to fast USB for external hard disks, etc...  The mac (osx panther) recognized the card immediately, without the need for drivers, etc.  Sync was very very fast, transfering complete songs in less than 1 second per song in many cases.  FAST transfers.  Fry's had numerous models of cards, some with Firewire and USB 2.0, other's with just firewire, and still others with only USB.  I purchased the least expensive, USB 2.0 only card that, only on the back of the package in fine type did it mention macs... and it works almost perfectly.  (note unplug the card before closing the powerbook lid or it won't sleep, and won't wake up the monitor, forcing a restart... this is the only issue I've encountered)Regarding the Nano.  Small, stupid small, almost too small...almost.  Click wheel works great, volume is powerful, songs are accessed immediatly with no delay (flash memory).  As there is no hard disk to be scrambled from impacts, it is able to take minor drops without issue.  And when it does fall, the thing is so light that it almost always falls softly.  Syncs are very very quick using USB 2.0.  (I frequently wipe all the songs and re-upload rather than poke through them when I want to make changes.  Uploading about 3 gigs of music takes around 30-40 seconds at most)The unit is light weight enough that I often pick it up by the headphone cord with no fear of it unplugging and falling.  The stock earbuds sound great, but hurt my ears after extended listening.  I currently use some foam earbuds I already owned.  Others have no problems with the ear buds, so I think it's just dependant upon the shape of one's ears.My only other complaint and I'm sure it can be overcome with a firmware upgrade, is that the white LED back light is blindingly bright at night.  When in the car using it, it actually almost hurts to look at it.  When the back light turns off, it does so by quickly fading out, so the capability to vary brightness is there, and needs to only have a menu option added to control it for low light use.  If I had to think up anything else wrong, I would say it the black moel shows fingerprints and smudges too easily. (but it looks sooo good in black)... but really, disregarding the lack of firewire which I'm sure would have added size, and since mose people already have USB 2.0 anyway could afford to be sacrificed... If the best complaints I can come up with are \"a screen that's too bright\", and \"shows smudges\", then this one is most certainly a winner.-Jason", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Using I-Pod Nano with USB 1.1 Macs", "unixReviewTime": 1127088000, "reviewTime": "09 19, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1CYTBE7LLUQ8F", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "Living in Budapest \"livinginhungary\"", "helpful": [14, 16], "reviewText": "I upgraded from my first generation 20GB iPod because it was a little too bulky for the gym. My Nano is great. I bought the armband. It's comfortable and safely holds the Nano. The only problem that I have with my Nano is that it scratches much too easily. I only use the armband for the gym. I have a special pocket for MP3 players in my winter coat. After only a few times in this pocket the plastic on my Nano had visible scratches. These were not deep, but certainly detract from the look of my Nano. I would highly recommend buying some type of case for the Nano. Alternatively, the white Nano may not show scratches as easily as the black Nano. Finally, in terms of performance and sound quality, my Nano is outstanding. I would have given the Nano 5 stars if its face were as scratch resistant as my original iPod.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "almost great...", "unixReviewTime": 1133654400, "reviewTime": "12 4, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3NM0RAYSL6PA8", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "Maine Writer \"David\"", "helpful": [1335, 1390], "reviewText": "I love the iPod. Always have. At home, we have five, including this one: the 4GB iPod nano black.Before you leap, realize two things: (1) this iPod is extremely fragile compared to other iPods, particularly the tough-as-nails iPod mini (a drop of a couple of feet onto a linoleum floor took out the screen); and (2) the black version gets scratched very easily, and shows scratches far more than any white iPod I've owned (after a day and before dropping the damn thing, it already looked awful from scratching -- and it was treated with kid gloves).Okay, if you can live with those caveats, and invest in a durable protector (we bought the arm-band holder, which does a lousy job of protecting the iPod nano)--none of which are out yet--then this new iPod is truly an amazing bit of technology. It's tiny (it feels even smaller than the photos suggest), has great sound quality (better, I think, than any other iPod I've owned), and the display is gorgeous (even though tiny).For me, the mini (now defunct, but bargains still abound) is the better choice given its sturdiness. I'm not up for museum-relic care for my electronics, which would certainly help if you own one of these.Another beautiful, functional gizmo from Apple.  Just know what you're getting.  Some websites claim the nano is sturdy. I can tell you, from first hand experience, it isn't.  So, you be the judge. (Sure, the thing still played, but replacing the screen will set you back at least $90, and, even on the web sites in question, the screen broke.)(Oh, and if you see someone taking shots at the iTunes software, don't believe it. It's the best music software out there, and its integration with this--or any--iPod is a joy.)__________Follow up ... Apple has admitted a problem with some of the nano screens and is doing the right thing: replacing the units with new ones. BRAVO!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Before you take the plunge ...", "unixReviewTime": 1127174400, "reviewTime": "09 20, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A34ZDM4OFYT4SP", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "Peter Headland", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "Please note that this is the old version (\"Generation 1\") iPod nano, not the new (\"Generation 2\") version. The new version has much better battery life and a brighter screen, but if you want it in black you have to pay the extra for the 8GB (4GB is not available in black in Gen 2 at the time of writing).", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Warning - this is the old version", "unixReviewTime": 1161907200, "reviewTime": "10 27, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3MBDBKB5PJJOS", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "Peter V. Cannice \"Peter Vincent Cannice of Sc...", "helpful": [16, 19], "reviewText": "If you're reading this review, you're likely preparing yourself to buy one of the COOLEST and Most Powerful electronic products ever to hit the market. It doesn't matter whether you've been familiar with Apple products since you were a child, or whether you're the kind of person that just likes to keep up with the very latest electronic marvels on the market-in either case you'll be extremely satisfied with your new iPOD.I fell in love with it before I even made the purchase. I read the reviews and did as much research as possible and then waited for it to come on the market. It's truly one of the best purchases I've ever made. It's also a purchase where I feel I got a true \"Bang For My Buck!\"Apple produced another wonder in the electronic marketplace. You might be buying this for yourself or thinking of buying it for someone that you Really, Really care about. Either way, you're making a purchase that you can feel mighty happy about and for a long time to come. If you're worried that you will not be able to keep up with the latest technology and want to wait for the next version-join the rest of us but please use this review to make you feel even better about buying your brand new Apple 4 GB iPOD Nano.The Apple 4 Gigabyte iPOD Nano is pencil thin-like and it also happens to just \"look good!\" I wanted to write a very honest review that would hopefully help everyone, especially those that are \"on the fence\" and need just a little nudge from somone who understands technology and knows when he spots a great deal. It also happens to come from someone who never really cared for Apple computers, however I'd be crazy to let my computer preference get in the way of an awesome and affordable product-the Apple iPOD 4 GB Nano! I've grown to really appreciate Apple computers and the iPOD 4 GB Nano takes my relationship to a whole new level.There is plenty of information available to you in regard to the specifications of the new iPOD. You can simply go to GOOGLE and find thousands of bits and pieces of information that will be helpful in making your purchase, but I think it's sometimes beneficial to hear from someone who HAS the product and wants to share his/her own personal experience with it. Please remember to always take all the time you need to make your purchase, whether it is for yourself or if you're purchasing it as a gift. I just can't imagine how excited someone would be to open a package and find an APPLE iPOD 4 GB Nano wrapped inside the bubble packaging!You'll learn all about the 1000 Songs it can store and play, along with it's ability to play a musical slideshow with up to 25,000 photos! Doesn't that ALONE sound incredible? It can store thousands of contact information and even act as a stopwatch or world clock. The display is beyond what I ever imagined in something this size. You'll soon learn that you can organize all of your music by several different categories. For example, mine has a category for easy listening music that I enjoy listening to and I can even separate the easy listening music by artist or album.There are too many features to mention. As I'm trying to conclude this review I keep getting bombarded, in my mind, with additional features like the great games that are included. Can you believe that all of this techbology and great sound can fit into one product. Apple did a great job and I can't wait to finish this review so I can ride my bike and listen to my newly categorized music on my Brand New Apple 4 GB iPOD Nano.Thanks for reading my review and for allowing me to try to give you some additional and helpful information-at least in part. I appreciate your time and would be happy to entertain any questions at my email address, HORSEPETE@aol.com.Sincerely,Pete CanniceScottsdale, Arizona(...)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "There Is Simply NOTHING That Can Compare With This Gadget Guru's Dream Come True! The 4 GB Nano Is A Technological Wonder!", "unixReviewTime": 1131926400, "reviewTime": "11 14, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3SCPTPTIKJZSG", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "rutabaga \"optimistic cynic\"", "helpful": [10, 14], "reviewText": "I was a bit dubious about buying a product from Apple, since an apple computer my sister owned crashed twice, even after extensive bug searching. However, I was pleasently surprised at the quality of the product. However, I give it only four stars for only a couple of reasons. First, the directions weren't as clear a I hoped them to be. I hooked up the iPod before installing the iPod software. Big no-no. IT gave my computer a massive system error-which fixed itself thank god- and I had to wait for six hours for the battery to run down before I could get it to work. A sticker on the inside saying something like \"WARNING! CONNECTING THE NANO TO YOUR COMPUTER WILL GIVE YOUR COMPUTER A SYSTEM ERROR AND POSSIBLY MAKE YOU GO INSANE\" That'd be great. But, aside from that and a few small tics over the durability of the iPod, I loved the little gizmo to death.When I opened the little box with the nano inside, the nano was so thin-because it was slightly sunk in to the case-that I thought it was a picture of the nono, to whet my apppetite for tech. Apple isn't lying. It is actually slightly SMALLER than a number two pencil in width. Because it's so small, you don't even have to buy an armband for it. Just stick it through a belt buckle and it's snug and tight.You can waste away hours listening to music, viewing photo slide shows(on a side note, I still haven't figured out how to get photos onto the thing)and playing the incredibly addictive games. And with 14 hours of battery life, this thing just keeps going and going.The screen is excellent as well. Though it is small-only 1.5 inches diagonally-it's bright, colorful, vid and the image on it jumps out at you.And again, this machine is simply beautiful. Although tiny, it still packs a wallop and is definitely worth the rather large price.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Excellent", "unixReviewTime": 1131235200, "reviewTime": "11 6, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2B7BUH8834Y6M", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "Shelley Gammon \"Geek\"", "helpful": [21, 22], "reviewText": "You have to physically handle and hold the new iPod Nano to believe it is real. It is approximately 1 ounce in weight, so almost unnoticable on your person - whether it's in a pocket or an armband. The small color screen is stunningly brilliant in brightness and color definition.The black iPod shows fingerprints more prominently than the white version - but ooh la la, it is most sexilicious to look at! I'd personally love to see one of these in red as well.Because they are so new, third party vendors haven't had much of a chance to make cases and other products for the Nano.There are only a handful of already existing products out there that are already compatible with the Nano...Available FM Transmitters:Forget the iTrip and those of that ilk - current versions won't work with the Nano. Your choices for now are the Belkin (which is buggy) and the Monster iCar Play Plus. The Monster version isn't cheap, but it's an integrated charger and FM transmitter and is one of the best out there.Available Cases:The Apple branded armband - looks like a glorified bandaid in the case, but looks decent when you wear itApple branded Tubes - good luck finding one, most Apple Stores still haven't gotten any in stockApple branded iPod Socks - designed for the older iPods, they work fine with the Nano - but can cause minor scratchesAvailable Speakers that Charge:The JBL OnStage - fits fine, sounds greatThe Bose Sound Dock - is visibly off-center, but fits fine, sounds freakin' awesomeAltec Lancing's IM3 for full and mini - fits but sound is lacklusterKlipsch - sounds great... Nano is greatly dwarfed, however by such large equipment... akin to building a superdome around a book of matches.By the time you read this review, 10 other vendors will have probably already submitted their patents and copyrights to lawyers for new gizmos.Apple has announced that the new configuration of how the Nano connection is set up will be the NEW standard for all forthcoming iPods... this will help vendors make products more quickly and without quaking in their boots that by the time they get something to market, it will be outdated - and should encourage lots of new development like we have yet to have seen thus far in the iPod accessory industry.The Nano adds a World Clock, a stop watch and a combination lock to the \"extras\" menu. The famous silver back collects scratches and fingerprints exactly like its counterparts - but this is a known - get a case to protect your investment. Contrary to what another reviewer posted, the Nano is not \"fragile\" - far from it. There are no moving parts - so you could probably use this as a hacky-sack for an hour without fazing it.At least one consumer has published their own abuse study of the Nano, running it over with a car and throwing it from a moving car at 55mph before finally rendering it useless after a 40 foot drop onto cement. The screen makes it a tad more vulnerable than the shuffle... but it's a sturdy piece of industrial art.My less than perfect rating is for the following:1.) No firewire support - even if you have a dock connector to firewire cable, you won't be able to use it - it is USB 2.0 only. What is Apple thinking? Hello! Remember your loyal Mac users who prefer FireWire?2.) Sole earphone jack is too close to dock connector - using a splitter probably precludes charging it at the same time.3.) No extra jack or connector on flipside so remote can be added while it charges... so if and when the vendors make recorders, remotes and other goodies for the Nano, you won't be able to use them in tandem with a charging solution.4.) No bluetooth. Why is this an issue? More and more items are becoming BT enabled. One application I can think of right now is a Nano finder. The Nano is almost weightless and very thin - if you misplace it, how are you going to find it? If it had BT and you had (for example) a Nano finder on a keychain, clicking it could send a signal to your Nano to make audible clicks. Just an idea. This review loses a star for the other reasons, however, not this one... but come on, Apple!5.)Still no way to get custom logo engraving via Apple unless you're a corporation with a large order... third party vendors are now doing laser engraving so you can put photos of pets, kids, yourself, your logo, etc. on the back of your iPod - but Apple offers no such solution. Considering that stamps.com allows you to make your own legal US postage with a photo of your pet, and they are able to prevent porn and other objectionable imagery through, there is no reason why Apple cannot make this accommodation.6.) Limited (still!) photo capabilites. Compact Flash cards are like diamonds - the bigger they are, the more they are per carat (or rather, per MB). The iPod Photo camera connector connects a camera just fine - but not to the Nano! There is no explanation for this - it still uses a dock connector, but won't work w/ the Nano. The camera connector isn't that great to begin with, because you can ONLY use it to connect an iPod to a camera, not to a compact flash or multi reader... so if you're out in the field taking photos, you can't take them until your photos download and you waste your battery in your camera. If you could attach a card reader to the connector and download photos for storage on your iPod while simultaneously shooting more photos with your camera using a different card so you can swap without losing precious shooting time. Camera connector shortcomings notwithstanding, it doesn't work with the Nano. I know I already stated this, but I'm still frustrated.The part of me that loves Apple's innovative technology and design wanted to give this incredible gizmo 5 stars - but there is still overt room for improvement and I know Apple can do this!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Amazing technological leap doesn't even look real!", "unixReviewTime": 1127174400, "reviewTime": "09 20, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2I2X57GERB4QA", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "S. LIU \"Stanluca\"", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "The iPod Nano is a miniature version of the discontinued iPod Mini + iPod Photo.  It plays like a regular iPod in a compact little package.  The only thing I didn't like was that the screen got scratched up when I put it in my pocket the first week.  The screen is VERY fragile.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great little gem...", "unixReviewTime": 1127865600, "reviewTime": "09 28, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3DIXCPG86IQNN", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "Steve R", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "This is the first iPod of any kind I've ever owned so I can't compare it to the others. I do like it, though, and I've had it now about three months.Like many of the other reviewers have noted, it does scratch easily, the battery life is maybe half of what is advertised, it's hard to get the connector out while the phones are plugged in, and the ear buds are uncomfortable bordering on painful.There is one other glitch that I find annoying. I frequently use the \"hold\" switch so that it won't turn on accidentally and start playing when I'm not using it. However, if you plug it into the connector while the hold switch is on, the unit turns on and locks up. The screen light is on, the last song played is displayed and paused, and no amount of clicking or turning on and off will get it to unlock. The only thing you can do is let the battery run completely down and recharge, which takes many hours. I'd love to know if anyone else has encountered this problem. I guess remembering to switch off \"hold\" would help, but I don't always remember.With all those problems you'd think I would hate it but I really do like it. On the plus side, the Nano is unbelievably lightweight and compact. The display is bright and easy to read and the sound is great. The wheel is simplicity itself and an amazing engineerig feat. I find myself using the Nano even in places where I have access to full stereo equipment.One note to Apple: If you're going to make a black iPod, how 'bout some black headphones?", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "one annoying glitch", "unixReviewTime": 1134000000, "reviewTime": "12 8, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1WM8DNWJ8SCEL", "asin": "B0007Y79B2", "reviewerName": "the_emperor_of_ice_cream", "helpful": [11, 22], "reviewText": "Pros...1) Hands-down, the very best UI of ANY portable music player2) Itunes is the most intuitive application to be found on the netCons...1) If (sorry, when) the hard drive of your PC crashes, wave goodbye to your purchased music.  There are many sites explaining how to easily retrieve the songs that you ripped from a CD or DVD to your IPOD, but if you have not backed up your purchased (from Itunes) music to another source, it is forever gone.  This is one of the biggest gotchas of any product on the planet earth; some folks have hundreds -- even thousands -- of dollars worth of exposure here2) Pathetically fragile3) Much like previous generation IPODs, when the battery goes, the device is useless unless you are willing to spend $100 to have Apple replace the batteryNet/net: I would not recommend this player (or any Apple portable music player) to my friends without a VERY reliable back-up device.  Apple is making huge (arguabley obsence) profits off a very trusting and under-informed  public.  Caveat emptor (i.e., buyer beware).", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Most IPOD Fans Do NOT Understand the Financial Risk", "unixReviewTime": 1142380800, "reviewTime": "03 15, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A265LEKV4RHBE9", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "A. Drew \"adrew\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I bought a three-megapixel point-and-shoot digital camera back in 2000 and took close to 10,000 pictures with it over the years.  It was still working fine but I was beginning to run into many of its limitations: poor battery life, slow shot-to-shot performance, inability to focus in dim conditions, noisy images at high ISO and/or long shutter speeds, SmartMedia memory cards limited to 128 MB and etc.The D50 has none of these problems.  I took a couple hundred pictures over the Christmas holiday (with frequent use of the flash) and never had to charge the battery.  The D50 has a high-speed, ~3 frame-per-second mode and can take pictures as fast as you'd like.I purchased the 18-70 DX lens instead of the 18-55 lens that normally comes with the D50.  With this combination it rarely has trouble focusing.  And even if it's a little off, you can manually fine-tune the focus after the autofocus has given it its best shot.  It is so nice to have a true, optical, through-the-lens viewfinder.  I often had parallax errors with the viewfinder in my old P&S.;I'm also a huge fan of the D50's low noise at high ISO settings.  I can shoot at 1600 ISO in dim conditions with about the same level of noise as my old camera has at 100 ISO.If you think you've grown out of your P&S; digicam, go ahead and get a D-SLR.  The performance is so much better and it will make you want to start taking pictures again.  And unlike point and shoots, megapixels don't matter as much with a D-SLR.  Take the Canon 20D, for example.  It is an 8-megapixel camera (vs the D50's 6-megapixels).  While it sounds like a lot more, in reality you'll only be able to make a print that's about 2 inches wider (and the D50 makes beautiful 8x10s).Get one.  You'll love it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great upgrade from a point-and-shoot", "unixReviewTime": 1141948800, "reviewTime": "03 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A114WE1URT580Y", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "Arturo Fukuda Ll", "helpful": [125, 130], "reviewText": "I had the chance to test the Canon XT and Nikon D50 at the same time during a whole day.....and I leant towards the D50...why??? because I noticed eight differences:1. D50 is less noisy than XT from Iso 200 to 800 and also crispier.2. DR is better on the D50, ...3. D50 grip is excellent (to me)4. The start-up is also a bit faster on the D50...the XT under low light conditions take more than a second to focus properly and raise the flash.5. Nikon colors are awesome.6. Battery life is endless.....much much better than XT battery....no doubt on it.7. 18-55Dx is sharper than 18-55 EFs, in fact, the Canon kit lens is unusable.8. NEF is less noisy than Canon RAW.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "D50 = The Best Noise Performer", "unixReviewTime": 1131494400, "reviewTime": "11 9, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1YRMTVS6KIVMV", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "Bill C NY \"Bill\"", "helpful": [19, 19], "reviewText": "I bought the D50 kit with the 14-55 mm lens.  At the same time I bought the 70-300mm Nikkor lens designed for the D70.  It takes almost any Nikon(Nikkor) autofocus lens, all of the Nikon knock-off lenses like Sigma,  all of their speedlights etc.This camera takes unbelivable pictures.  With the 70-300mm lens I took pictures from fair territory in the upper deck of Yankee Stadium at a night game.  I have shots where you can see the ball (clearly) coming off the bat.  Unbeleivable - I had to be 450 feet away at night.  This was using auto exposure and autofocus.It is great for action shots.  I have used it for portraits, cross country meets, and snapshots on a cruise.  All come out great.I have just boght the Nikkor 28-200mm zoom so I don't have to change lenses at track meets.My recomendation would be to get the body only and the Nikkor 28-200 mm lens.  It is expensive at $369, but is probably the only lens you will ever need even for sporting events.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Camera Any Accessory You Want", "unixReviewTime": 1137283200, "reviewTime": "01 15, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A212MDP6K4VJS5", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "Bill Stockstill \"&#34;Bill&#34;\"", "helpful": [19, 20], "reviewText": "20 years ago when I made the leap to SLR photography the best images always were out of reach. For those crisp, bright, beautiful photos you needed \"good glass\". Nikon glass (or to a lessor extent back then, Canon) was top class yet so expensive. Shooting tons of film was so expensive.Nikon has put world class photography in the grasp of the Masses. No longer do you have to spend thousands on a lens or hundreds on developing to get jaw dropping photos. The D50, which seems to get more affordable every day, takes the most beautiful and sharp photos I have ever personally seen. The flesh tones are stunning. I work with someone who wants to trade his Canon Rebel in for the D50. It feels wonderful in your hand. Once you spend some time with it you appreciate how simple it is to use. For the more advanced users there are plenty of adjustments you can make. The camera is simply wonderful. Buy one, you won't regret it.Pros-Simple to use-You can make all kinds of adjustments to your exposures if you are so inclined-Stunning clarity and color rendition-Low noise at high ISO-Solidly Built, Feels Great in Your Hand-PRICE!!!! Affordable Excellent Lenses Available including Many old lenses-No More Film!!!Cons-No light on the top panel (you can purchase a small red light for night work)-No mirror lock up for less camera movement on long (tripod mounted) exposures-Remote only works from in front of the camera-Flash system not as complex as on D70 (control more then one flash)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Nikon Makes Photographic History", "unixReviewTime": 1151020800, "reviewTime": "06 23, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3EK2KTYHJCPB9", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "Brian R.", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "You won't find this camera new anymore, so why this review?Well, the D50 is an excellent way to jump into DSLR photography without breaking the bank.  This camera is well-built and even with \"only\" 6 megapixels, it'll still blow away most modern point-and-shoot cameras.The key feature that the D50 has that NONE of the entry-level Nikons (ie &lt;$1000) have had since is the \"drive screw\".  What is it?  Basically, it's a feature that allows this camera to autofocus lenses that don't have a focus motor built into the lens itself.  On Nikon lenses, this is AF vs. AF-S.  The AF lenses need the screw drive to work, whereas the AF-s lenses have the motor built in.  One key lens is the Nikon 50mm f1.8 AF lens.  It's a superb value lens that can be had under $100.  Having the drive screw also opens up lens options from Sigma, Tamron, and other 3rd-parties and these lenses are often much cheaper as well.Therefore, if you're hesitant about buying a DSLR because of the price, or you're not sure of which brand you want to commit to, try out a used D50, get a couple of these cheaper lenses, and you'll have a great kit for probably less than you'd spend on one of the newer entry-level DSLR's.Where you will find this camera lacking compared to other more modern replacements is in continuous shooting speed, no SDHC capability, and poorer high-ISO (>800) performance.  However, my advice is to learn how to use a DSLR and hone your technique with something inexpensive but still versatile, then you can determine which of those attributes are actually important when considering your next purchase.Finding a good deal on a used D50 is a no-brainer!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "The best buy in older/value Nikon DSLR's", "unixReviewTime": 1288051200, "reviewTime": "10 26, 2010"}
{"reviewerID": "A3GAMQMQX9W8ZV", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "Charley Cross", "helpful": [15, 15], "reviewText": "The D50 has all the Nikon quality I've come to expect. Images are excellent, of course. But the thing that most impresses me is how fast this camera is in every way that matters. When you turn it on, it's ready to shoot--no perceptible warm-up. When you press the shutter release, it shoots right then--not half a second later like many digital cameras, which miss critical shots. You can shoot in rapid sequence--no waiting around for it to process the last shot. It focuses fast, too. Spring for the extra money for a high-speed SD card and you'll get screaming transfer times, too.The only complaint I have is the little rubber cover that hides the USB and other ports is a little hard to get smoothly all the way back into place. A pretty minor complaint.An unexpected bonus compared to all the little digital point-and-shoot cameras I've used is the D50 has a 3:2 aspect ratio instead of 4:3. This means you're shooting the same aspect ratio as 35mm film (36mm x 24mm) and it conveniently fits a standard 4x6 print at your local photo processor without any unwanted cropping happening.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "One fine, fast D-SLR!", "unixReviewTime": 1141171200, "reviewTime": "03 1, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3B1RTNG5E7IBO", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "dCabral", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "My general advice pertaining to this camera, is to get one before they are all gone. Yes, it has being replaced by the Nikon D40(x) line. However, take this into consideration; when it comes to Single-Lens-Reflex systems, one main component that matters most is the quality of the lens, and the versatility of the body to handle the lens.The Nikon D40 just don't have that ability auto-focus with legacy lenses unless they have intergraded, coreless focus motor build-in (AF-I or AF-S). Think of it this way, the next Nikon model that presently has the ability to use this old legacy of lens is the Nikon D80 (making it and advanced feature).These lens have an established reputation of being durable, tack sharp, versatile, and all around excellent optics. Although I don't believe that film SLR will be obsolete anytime soon, the growth of DSRL and compatible DX lenses will take away some of the demands for these old lenses, providing you with bargain prices, such as the standard 50mm f1.8 which you can get for about $100. This lens one of the best you can ever get for your Nikon digital or film and although fully-functional on the Nikon D50, I will not auto focus on D40(x)).In conclusion, I believe that if you buy the Nikon D40, and you improved as a photographer, you may feel necessary to upgrade to a more advanced body. If you get a Nikon D50, your focus will be on new lenses. Personally, the ideal starter kit is: Nikon D50, 2G fast SD card, Sigma 10-20mm, Nikon 18-200 VR f3.5-5.6, the Nikon 50mm f1.8 to compensate low light conditions due to the wonderful f1.8, and a Nikon SB-600 flashlight.Beware, the SLR system of photography is highly addictive, and you will be tented to purchase a great amount of accessories to complement your system.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Get one before they are all gone!!", "unixReviewTime": 1176422400, "reviewTime": "04 13, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1XBPZK8KCROZS", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "D. Gage \"D. Gage\"", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "Works great like the other reviews mention.  Battery life is exceptional.  The only thing I am adjusting to is the requirement to use the view finder to take pictures - I previously had a Sony and had grown accustomed to taking pictures by viewing the subject in the LCD display.In general, I am very happy and love the fact it takes standard SD memory cards.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great camera for the experienced amateur", "unixReviewTime": 1135641600, "reviewTime": "12 27, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A9NR04Z4PG8OH", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "D. Henri \"filmdave\"", "helpful": [32, 33], "reviewText": "I'd been drooling over the D70 for the last couple of years, but the $1000 price tag was still a bit high for me.  When the D50 came out, accompanied with fantastic reviews in the digital photo magazines, I finally took the plunge.This is a GREAT camera.  Really versatile, and terrific image quality.6 megapixels is, as I understand it, the digital equivalent of a 35mm film resolution.  Be sure, though, to keep the ISO setting as low as possible.  Just as shooting 800ASA film will introduce more grain to your film shots, even shooting 400ISO will introduce much unwanted video noise to your digital shots.Battery life is amazing.  I recently had a 14 hour shoot, in which I shot over 1500 frames.  I planned ahead and bought a spare battery -- only, I never needed it!  I've used the camera often since the beginning of the year -- the battery charge indicator has remained on 'full' since my last charge, around Christmas.The most important issue with any camera, though, is image quality.  This baby exceeds all expectations.  As a point-and-shoot (full auto mode), it's phenominal.  Start messing with the myriad of available settings, and you can do anything with it.In full auto mode, I recommend killing the flash in all but the most necessary situations (nighttime parties, for example -- you've got no other choice).All in all, this is a brilliant, wonderful, exceptional camera.One final note -- piece of advice I heard often as I was doing my research:If you already have a film-based SLR camera, be sure to check out the digital SLRs made by your film camera's manufacturer.  If you have Nikon already, the D50 is great and you can probably use most if not all of your existing lenses on this body.  If you have Canon film cameras, the digital rebels will be able to use those lenses and they also create great shots.I've long been a Nikon fan and am even able to use the manual-everything lens from my 30 year-old EM with the D50.  It's great!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great great great Digital SLR!", "unixReviewTime": 1136851200, "reviewTime": "01 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1AX4VSNGG2HEQ", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "Jim In Texas! \"I'm just a big kid.\"", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "I've had film SLRs for 30 years, and digital cameras for about 6.I am blown away by the high quality of the Nikon D50. Clearly tremendous thought and effort went into the design of this camera.The beginner can start taking great pictures out of the box with almost no knowledge of photography, while the advanced user will find almost every option and setting he or she needs.This camera is the best electronic/mechanical object I have ever owned.  It is a pleasure to hold, and even greater pleasure to use.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Insanely Great!", "unixReviewTime": 1139270400, "reviewTime": "02 7, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3HN470MGR70D2", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "JMAC \"JMAC\"", "helpful": [88, 88], "reviewText": "I have used Canon and Nikon film cameras for more than 20 years (love my N55 and still use an AE1-P) and own other Canon and Nikon digitals but this was my first D-SLR.  I scoured magazine and online reviews and the choice came down to the Canon EOS Rebel XT and the Nikon D70.They are very similar.  The EOS is 8.0 MP vs. the D70's 6.1 MP but for the type of photography I will be doing (max 11x14 prints) that is not a problem.  The D70 has quite a few more control features.  That and the price difference tipped me towards the Nikon.Once I made up my mind to buy a Nikon, I compared the D70 to the D50.  They are quite similar and in some ways the D50 is superior to the more expensive D70.  Besides a more rugged body, the D70 has a few nice features the D50 lacks: a lighted control panel, a front sub-control thumbwheel, depth of field preview, and you can fine-tune white balance.  But the D50 has some features over the D70, notable a larger LCD monitor, higher capacity battery, and USB 2.0 high speed support.  Every magazine I read raved about the D50 and none of the features it lacked made me willing to pay more for the D70.  I purchased the D50 with the Nikkor AF-S DX 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6G Zoom Lens.After using it for several weeks all I can say is, wow!  It is easy to use but I can fiddle with nearly all settings when I want to get creative.  Using a digital with almost no shutter lag has spoiled me.  I've taken many great shots with a Canon PowerShot 1S IS but it's my backup now.  In the D50 I have finally found an affordable digital camera that is as fun to use as my film cameras.Pros will probably prefer higher-end Nikons but if you like using film SLRs and would like to get into a D-SLR for less than the price of a decent used car, I highly recommend the D50.June 2006 update: I recently used my D-50 to photograph friends doing a triathlon to raise money for cancer research.  It performed flawlessly in all settings and I ended up with many outstanding photos.  The triathlon gave me ample opportunities to use the D-50's \"sports\" setting and continuous exposure feature to capture athletes swimming, bicycling, and running from a variety of distances.  The colors are perfect and I was able to get 5x7 and 8x10 prints on photo paper (from a lab) with hardly a tweak beyond cropping.  The D-50 is now my favorite camera.  Yes, there are cameras with higher resolution and more features but it is hard to beat the \"bang for the buck\" factor on the D-50.One suggestion: like every other camera manual I have ever read, the Nikon manual that comes with the D-50 is accurate and complete but leaves a lot to be desired.  Unless you are so experienced that you do not have to read a manual (and I'm not) I highly recommend you invest in a copy \"Magic Lantern Guides: Nikon D50\" by Simon Stafford.  This book is everything the Nikon manual is not.  This Magic Lantern Guide not only thoroughly explains every feature on the D-50 but goes beyond to illustrate how, when, and why you would use a setting or feature.  It also throws in tips & tricks that Nikon's writers wouldn't include.  Highly recommended.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The N50 is an Outstanding Entry-Level D-SLR", "unixReviewTime": 1134000000, "reviewTime": "12 8, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1F7SX3GNVBNE3", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "Joshua G. Feldman \"Technophile\"", "helpful": [37, 37], "reviewText": "Growing up in the 70s and 80s as a photo enthusiast I had a succession of Nikon SLRs and lenses and was deeply devoted to them.  In the late 90s and early 2000s I was seduced by the ability to manipulate and quickly print digital pictures and had a succession of digital cameras including an Olympus D490z and a Canon G3.  These cameras had their charms, but they were slow to shoot - often missing the action.  Their dynamic range (ability to capture detail in both shadow and highlight areas) paled beside good film.  Also, their lightweight manual override modes and lenses made them poor competition to the Nikons for nighttime, macro, and special lighting photography.  I purchased a Nikon D50 almost as an impulse when I saw the price - and was prepared to be disappointed.  For the most part I was thrilled.What's hot:1) This camera is FAST.  Just like my film SLR, the camera is instantly on when I turn it on and shoots as fast as my finger drops (except when the flash is involved - just like my SLR).  I finally get action shots of the kids!  Yipeee!  This feature alone totally sold my wife on this camera.2) Autofocus is awesome - seems to have ESP when picking subjects.  Has quick and easy target selection override.3) Great dynamic range and resolution.  Shooting in fine jpeg mode allows me to print in whatever size I like - up to 8x10 without obvious artifacts.  Tones are smooth without visible plateaus most of the time and have good detail in both shadow and bright areas.4) Great flexibility.  A wealth of modes gives me shortcuts to operational modes that handle a wealth of special sitation photography.  Manual overrides give me amazing control.5) Good (but not perfect) meter.6) Small and extremely light weight for an SLR.7) 18-55mm lens has good wide angle range, somewhat limited telephoto - but covers all the basics with aplomb.  I seldom want for more.8) Great macro mode in the built-in camera.  Nikon has purpose-built macro lenses, but the macro in the standard 18-55 is way better than the G3's $85 macro add-on solution.  Images of coins fill the frame and you can see tiny detail.  Way more than adequate for selling coins or stamps on Ebay.9) I find this camera very attractive10) Integrated help screens in many of the menus.  This camera is deep.  You will not get the most out of it unless you take the time to learn about it.  Once you have the gist - the help screens help you remember what's up when you're out in the field.NOTs1) I can't use my old Nikon AI lenses.  They fit - but don't communicate with the meter.2) Superlightweight for the size - will it be durable?3) It may be lightweight for the size - but this is still an SLR and can't compete with smaller cameras for portability.  This doesn't fit in any pockets - it hangs around your neck or lives in a kit bag.4) Doesn't have a \"B\" mode on shutter release - limiting its use for astrophotography.  This is too bad because it's so light.5) 18-55mm lens isn't as cool as the 18-70mm lens the D70S ships with.  Oh well - the 18-55 is still mighty fine for the price.  If you have more scratch buy the D50 body and get the 18-70 ala cart.6) This a serious camera for photo enthusiasts.  While the awesome speed and image quality in full auto mode makes it easy for beginners to get started, a point and shoot user is going to to frustrated by this camera because the magic requires a half hour with the manual and some basic photo knowledge.7) 2\" screen on the back is fixed - it's more for settings and looking at pictures after you shoot than for shooting.  You shoot while looking through the viewfinder on this camera.  This fits the whole SLR ethos.  I sometimes miss the cool articulated screen with the G3 that let me hold the camera at arm's length - like low to the ground or high in the air to get cool \"point of view\" shots.  That's right out with the D50.8) Secure Digital Media - a strength or weakness depending on your perspective.  Most other DSLRs use compact flash and I'm selling my nice collection of compact flash cards on Ebay right now.Bottom line?  After 25 years I'm finally selling my Nikon FA (and all my darkroom equipment).  The D50 is so good that I'm putting film to bed at last.  The shooting experience with the D50 is as good as film in most areas and better in some others.  The fact that you can bring this home for under eight bills is gravy.  This price, by the way is pretty much exactly what the film SLRs ended up costing in adjusted dollars.  Kudos to Nikon for leapfrogging Canon with the killer entry level DSLR.  Last point - this might BE the entry level DSLR - but nothing FEELs entry level about it.  This is a real serious - GOOD - tool for photography.  It's a revolutionary product from my perspective.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Now I can sell my film SLR!", "unixReviewTime": 1144281600, "reviewTime": "04 6, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2Y08KFEHZO280", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "Kyle D. Gendron", "helpful": [30, 30], "reviewText": "I've been a Nikon user for just about 20 years. I started with an N6006 and also still have the N70. In '02 I went digital with a small Canon S30 P&S.; That camera got me a lot of great pictures, but I'd take out the N70 every now and then because it took so much better pictures.  Digital, however, is just so much more convenient to use now a days.I always longed for a dSLR ever since Nikon launched their first back around 1999-2000. Those were the $5000 units. One day, the price would come down. They then came out with the D100. Still out of my price range. The D70 and D70s started to make my dSLR dreams more real. After the D50 was launched, I was still convienced that the D70s was the way to go.  Then I started reading reviews. The D50, although considered \"An entry level\" camera, was nothing to take lightly. The more I looked into it the more I realized that maybe the D50 was for me. I didn't really need a lot of the 'bells and whistles' of the D70s. It has the same sensor (which is better than the D70 and D100), the D50 only goes to 1/4000th of sec instead of 1/8000th of sec (but how many pictures of hummingbirds do we really take?), command dials: 1 vs 2 - my film camera's only had 1 I wont miss the other, same for the DOF preview and backlit LCD, plus the info that is there can also been seen in the viewfinder.  If you want a DOF preview, take the picture and look at it in the 2\" LCD. Those extra things weren't worth $300 to me, especially for the same amount of mexapixels, 6.1.I've had the D50 for a little more than 6 months now. In addition to the camera I bought the Nikkor 18-70mm lens (I wanted a bit more reach than the 18-55mm). This compliments my old Quantaray 70-300mm telephoto zoom lens I used with my N70. I also purchased the Nikkor 50mm f/1.8, which is worth its weight in gold. Outstanding pictures and its inexpensive at just over 100 dollars.I've taken about 2500 pictures thus far, including a 4 day photo trip to Walt Disney World. This camera does not disapoint. I haven't used any of the preset settings. I use P, S, A or M only. AFAIC, this is an SLR camera, not a point and shoot.This camera has brought me back into photography as a hobby. Everything I learned in high school and then forgot, I've now picked up again and the results are outstanding.If you do get this camera or already have it, do yourself a favor and learn about lighting. Learn how shutter speeds and aperture and ISO affect your pictures. Once you get the hang of it you will only improve your pictures.Also keep in mind, that this is really only a light tight box and the pictures you take with it are more influenced by the lens you have on it.  This makes this camera even better in that it is less expensive and will allow you to get better lenses (ie: 18-70mm, 50mm f/1.8, or if you really want supurb results: 17-55 f/2.8, 35-70 f/2.8, 105mm f/2.8 VR macro and the big daddy,,, 70-200mm f/2.8 VR)The beauty of SLR's are the interchangeable lenses. There will always be a lens you'll want next.  The beauty of digital SLR's, they record all the information along with the image, ie: shutter speed, f/stop, ISO, white balance, lens used, date/time, focal length used, if flash was fired and more. This information, if you use it, will improve your photography skills. No need for bringing along a notebook. Digital is your friend!!Enjoy. I certainly do.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "High quality and highly affordable", "unixReviewTime": 1152489600, "reviewTime": "07 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A9XT888YY5TPM", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "Kyle Lanclos", "helpful": [64, 68], "reviewText": "The D50 is the newest rung in Nikon's ladder of digital DLR cameras. Compared to the competition (which you can read about all you want on the wider web), it offers an excellent feature set at an excellent price point. If low cost was your only concern, you can't really go wrong with the D50. It is an excellent camera, but make no mistake, it is not as capable as Nikon's other offerings. It is also worth remembering that no camera will take pictures for you; you can take astounding pictures with any camera, either astoundingly good, or astoundingly bad. The important feature of any camera is that your camera does not get in the way of your photography, but again, it is your photography, not the camera, that takes good pictures.If you are shopping for a D50, I strongly encourage you to consider the D70: it has more features and the same basic usability as the D50, and the cost is pretty much the same. The D70s is more expensive, but has a couple of newer features than the D70; as far as taking pictures goes, the D70 and D70s are pretty much the same camera.Why the D70? Two main reasons. One is the kit lens (18-70mm) that comes with the D70 kit package. The 18-55mm lens that ships with the D50 kit is a lower-end lens (note that I'm not calling it a bad lens), but the 18-70 lens that comes in the D70 kit is an excellent lens. You may quickly feel limited by the D50 kit lens, but the D70 kit lens is good enough that you would not feel ashamed if you were using it on Nikon's flagship camera, the D2x.The second reason to go with the D70 is that it leaves more doors open if you want to upgrade later on. It supports more of the high-end functions of the more expensive Nikon digital SLRs (such as the wireless flash capabilities of Nikon's iTTL system), and it uses CompactFlash memory cards-- if you do decide to upgrade, you won't have to buy a whole new set of memory cards. The memory card business is a minor consideration, but if you're a starving artist trying to scrimp together the money to upgrade, a couple hundred bucks can make a difference. After all, that's part of why you're looking at the D50, right?Think of the extra $50-100 you spend on a D70 as an investment in your new hobby. It's not as important if you plan on buying a new camera body every year, but for those of us that plan on using the camera for several years, the versatility is more than worth the price.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Good for beginners", "unixReviewTime": 1126137600, "reviewTime": "09 8, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3EX9PGC97VY3X", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "Leigh F. Ishikawa", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "This is my first DSLR.  I also own Nikon N90 (film).  The construction isn't as solid as N90 (bullet-proof), but it's pretty close.  After using this camera for almost 3 weeks, I've fallen back in love with photography.  Not only am I excited to take photos, but I am also interested in experimenting given there are no development costs!The only weakness of this camera (for me), is lack of backlit LCD.  When in a dark situation, you may encounter a problem.  (Not yet though).  Some people say CF is better, but because my other camera uses SD, I'm very happy with Nikon's decision.  You can pickup a 1 gig SD card on sale for $30 now.Summary:I told my friends that when there's a good DSLR for $500, I will buy it., and so I have.  And after owning this camera for 3 weeks, this is unbelievable for the price!  This is essentially a slightly stripped down D70s.  Yes, there are some nicer features on D70s, but quite frankly I can live without them.  And since I never had them (grid lines, depth of field preview), I don't think I'll even miss them.SLRs:I noticed some users complaining about lack of comprehending about SLR.  All SLR manuals are only sufficient to get you through the controls of the camera.  SLRs are not point and shoot and nobody will explain about details of how to take a picture.  In the old days, classes were highly recommended.  But with DSLR, you have no excuse but to blast through hundreds of photos to figure out what is the best way to take a photo.  About the only thing you need is a notebook to keep track of what settings you did and describe the conditions around you.  Though I own and watched N90 video (in the mid 90's) I found this wonderful site:[...]Let the flash load completely, and click on \"Open Menu\" and Nikon will guide you through the basics.  If you go through the entire tutorial, I think it's the equivalent of video tutorial you can buy from them..  (I have not seen the D50 video but that's pretty much what N90 video tutorial covered.).Conclusion:This camera has brought back the joy of photography for me.  I am looking forward to taking many memorable pictures with my D50.  I would strongly recommend anybody who wants to take great pictures and are willing to spend time to learn about SLR, this is the camera for you.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I've fallen in love with photography all over again!", "unixReviewTime": 1143158400, "reviewTime": "03 24, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A10PREJWAAKEZN", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "L. Johnson", "helpful": [18, 18], "reviewText": "First of all, I am an amature photographer, still on a learning curve.  I was an avid film SLR (Minolta XG1) user until I bought this camera.  After extensive research, I finially purchased a D50.  Over one year later, and over 15,000 shots, I couldn't be happier.  The pictures are just amazing.  The camera is quick and does what you want it to do.  If you are a point and shooter, or someone who does not like to make adjustments for the optimal picture, this camera is not for you.  I believe that most people's problems come from lack of experience, bad lens, or in rare situations, a bad camera.  You must have patience with this camera to get the best out of your pictures.PROS::::*Sharp, sharp, sharp - always depends on your lens - I shoot with a Nikon 18-200 VR, and even get wonderful pictures off of a Sigma 70-300*Instant start up*Instant pictures - press the button and picture is taken immediately*All of the manual control you could want*Great autofocus and metering, once you learn how to use it - I shoot in Aperture priority with autofocus*Great pictures stright out of the camera - I rarely post-process*SD cards - I love the small size and quick write and read speed.  Plus the price keeps dropping*Nice LCD - large, and gives an idea of what the photo looks like, but do not trust it (as with any LCD)*Absolutely amazing battery life - I have taken over 300 pictures (without flash) with the battery still reading at full strengthCONS::::*Not ideal for indoor/very low light situations.  Bad noise at high ISO, and poor built in flash*No light on the top LCD screen*I don't really care for the \"dummy\" scene modes - this just may be due to the fact that I haven't used them extensively*It was hard to get used to the small viewfinder when compared to film viewfinders.  But I did eventually get used to it*May be too small for big handsWith the low light problems, I am looking into a Fuji F30, since most of my low light pictures is with friends and I don't want to carry around a bulky DSLR!Overall, I couldn't be happier!  It may be cheaper than most of the other DSLR's, but the power lays in the lens and the photographer.  It is an awesome camera that I have learned so much from.  Hopefully I will have this gem for a while to come!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Sooooooo Happy!", "unixReviewTime": 1164240000, "reviewTime": "11 23, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3DX5F0CW34Y9", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "Long Live the C64! \"LongLiveC64\"", "helpful": [489, 510], "reviewText": "First of all, I must admit that this is only my third digital camera, and first digital SLR.  But it isn't my first SLR ... I have used a Canon Elan IIE for a number of years, and trust me, that camera is no slouch.But enough about me ... the D50 is the real star of the show!  I have had the camera (along with the standard lens included with the kit) and so far I am extremely happy.  I purchased it just in time to capture some photos of my new neice, and my family swears that the pictures that I was just casually snapping at the hospital look like they are professional portaits.  Granted, some of my family members ... well, their necks are pretty tan, if you know what I mean, but you get the point.  The camera has a slew of modes that are ideally suited to your subject (portraits, action, etc etc), and they do a great job of making all of the fine adjustments that improve the overall quality of the photo for the non-experts.  But this camera has varying levels of automation to where you would practically require a photography degree to get your picture.  My skills are somewhere in between, but trust me, if you are an absolutely beginner, in 5 minutes you can be taking photos that are 99% of the quality that a pro with a $5000 setup would take.  Now you might need to snap a few dozen shots to get just one that is amazing, but that is what is just wonderful about digital cameras.  And with a huge, super sharp LCD preview window, you can see in an instant if you have a decent shot, and if not, delete it and try again!The camera takes the small \"big-toenail\" SD memory cards, which is a departure from what you will typically see in a digital SLR.  I personally like the smaller size; otherwise, I don't believe there is a significant difference.  If you pick up one major point from this review ... READ THIS !!!!  I initially tried shooting with some SD memory that I had been using in my MP3 player.  It worked fine, but if shooting a series of rapid shots, it would take the camera what seemed like a couple of seconds to write to the memory.  That is typical with all of the digital SLRs that I have read about ... you get maybe a dozen high-speed shots, and then the camera sort of \"bogs down\".  And most of the time that is fine.  But this camera takes advantage of the slightly more expensive \"pro\" SD memory, which can be written to at extremely high speeds.  Because of this, the camera can take an unprecendented number of shots (I believe 137 according to Nikon)!!!  Folks, that is amazing, let me tell you.  You can just hold the button down and fire away, and capture all of the high-speed action that you can imagine.  No more excuses for missing that perfect action shot.  Sure, you aren't going to require this feature very often, but it is nice to have, just in case.  And even with normal shots, the high-speed memory seems to work much quicker than normal memory.The camera can save files in three different size (resolution) levels, three different JPEG quality levels, and the complete uncompressed RAW format.  I've been shooting using the medium resolution and medium JPEG quality, and the photos look sharper than my old Canon 35mm SLR.  You could easily print out 8 x 10 photos and they would look perfect even at the medium quality setting; poster size would look fine at the high quality setting.The rechargeable battery that is included is simply amazing - I believe they rate it for 2000 shots, and I believe it.  It would be VERY diffult to drain this battery in a single day, even with numerous flashes and auto-focusing shots.The fast auto-focus, very user-friendly menus, flexibility with all Nikon lenses, and near-pro quality at a price that the weekend-photo-warrior consumer can afford, I don't see how you can go wrong with this camera.Happy photographing!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Fantastic digital SLR at any price!", "unixReviewTime": 1121731200, "reviewTime": "07 19, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2MIRMIT7EI9IG", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "Marcus A. Sasiadek", "helpful": [34, 36], "reviewText": "As a Coolpix user for many years, I finally upgraded to an SLR. The camera is easy to use and has many controls/features similiar to the Coolpix line. As you would expect, there is no lag time with the D50 compared to the Coolpix.  Also, the D50 battery lasts forever.I always had to fix up my Coolpix photos with Photoshop Elements. With the D50, over 90% of the photos don't need any help from Elements.The final verdict was comparing prints from the Kodak Print Service. I never noticed until I got the D50, but the Coolpix 5700 photos seem almost blurry in comparison to the D50 photos. The D50 photos seem somehow much clearer. It's had to describe, but there is a significant difference between them. In addition, the D50 colors are much more vibrant than the Coolpix 5700.I'm glad I upgraded. I should have done this sooner.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Puts the Coolpix Series to Shame", "unixReviewTime": 1125878400, "reviewTime": "09 5, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2YCEM7V1YCGO3", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "Michael Braun", "helpful": [20, 28], "reviewText": "When going for the NIKON D50 I had the following things in mind:I wanted a good DSLR camera, magnesium alloy body (no plastic like the Rebel), wide choice of lenses and, of course, good picture quality.The NIKON D50 gives you all this plus a lot more: It starts up in no time, it is silent, battery autonomy is ok, it is speedy and takes at least 2.5 fps in full res. and it feels very comfortable to use. The internal software (firmware) is excellent.I had a hard time figuring out the key differences between the Nikon D70 and D50. The way I see it, the extra (aperture) wheel for the right index finger and the DOF preview button on the D70 aren't worth the price difference. One should definitely spend the extra bucks on LENSES!!! The kit lens is good enough for family and vacation snapshots but for the studio or serious photography you shoud consider getting a 30mm f=1.4, a good wide angle (zoom?) lens and some f=2.8 tele.Always remember those things that yield a good picture:1. eye of the photographer2. light, light, light !3. good photometer (to measure and evaluate light, light, light...)4. good quality lenses5. gorgeous nude modelDon't forget to buy the speediest and largest-capacity SD card available.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Solid Camera - Great Value!", "unixReviewTime": 1125878400, "reviewTime": "09 5, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1Q6BZUQNYFKCX", "asin": "B0009GZAGO", "reviewerName": "M. L. White", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "Spectaculer camera! I recently upgraded from a Panasonic Lumix DMC-FZ20 to the Nikon D50, and it was definitely worth the investment. Picture quality is simple wonderful. I chose the D50 over a KonicaMinolta and Canon models in large part because of the very low noise the camera produces even at high ISOs. Noise at high ISOs was a major issue with the Lumix I had previously. I also chose this over the Canon Digital Rebel XT because the Rebel is actually too small. The buttons get crammed and are easly pressed by mistake, and with a good lens (the kit lens for the Rebel isn't too spectacular) the balance of the camera is way off. Neither of these is an issue with the D50. The D50 is very quick to focus in automatic mode, controls are easy to use, shot to shot time is wonderful. Battery life, which often seems to be an issue with digital cameras, is not with the D50. My father has a Canon Digital Rebel, and claims that this camera (the D50) is nicer, and the built in flash especially impressed him. The only thing is that while the two included lenses are quite good, neither makes a good general purpose lens. The 18-55 mm is often too short, and the 55-200mm one is often too long, so you need to swap lenses a lot. That said, this being an SLR, I plan on picking up a third lens in the future that ranges from say 28 mm to 200 or 300 mm.Highly recommended camera!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Spectacular", "unixReviewTime": 1138233600, "reviewTime": "01 26, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2YRX8J4WM5BRX", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "Adam Petrone \"Adam\"", "helpful": [14, 16], "reviewText": "I bought this to replace a canon A-80 I owned. I wanted a better zoom and a zoom while taking movies. This camera has done all that and more. The photos even in the auto mode are flawless. The camera is also very sturdy and seems to surpass all my expectations. I would recommend this camera to anyone looking for a great all around camera. I've put it through the ropes and has not disapointed me yet. A++ to canon on this one, it will be with me for awhile to come.Keep in mind that this camera is one of the largest in the point and shoot class, but this is needed to house the 12x optical zoom. Don't get confused between Optical and digital zoom.Optical zoom is the real deal, bringing the subject closer. Where digital zoom just crops the subject, usually causing blurry low quality pictures. If a Super zoom is more important than size then this is the camera for you.Update, In august I took the camera out to use and the screen was black. I called Canon which said it was a common problem with this model and they would fix it for 179.00. To much to spend on an old camera, sold on E-Bay for 69.00.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Screen went Black", "unixReviewTime": 1123545600, "reviewTime": "08 9, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3SVYWA9O1KUQV", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "Alan \"Choklat Luvr\"", "helpful": [21, 21], "reviewText": "This camera really surprised me in a good way! I didn't do any research on this camera at all but it has turned out to be even better than my Olympus 5060 or my old Canon G2. The things I really love about this camera are:1) The zoom, wow, got some great pictures of whales and glaciers on an Alaska cruise! You just can't beat 12X optical zoom :)2) Really fast! I've had a series of digital cameras including Canon G2, Olympus 5060 etc and this is by far the fastest of the bunch. On all the others there was a noticeable processing time delay; on this camera it almost always snaps the shot right away!3) The same LCD I came to love on the G2 that flips out and twirls around. This is invaluable for getting good shots with the camera above your head, I often use it when taking pictures of my food for website restaurant reviews.4) Great video settings, you can really take some high res quality video footage if you have enough memory!In addition, the menus are easy to use and things like picture resolution settings are very easy to access (as opposed to being buried in the menu system somewhere!). I find that 5MP is plenty for my web pictures and I think for most people it is perfectly adequate. Downloading pictures is very easy via the supplied USB cable, doesn't seem to require a special driver the way my old G2 did.The things I don't love so much:1) The camera is a bit on the bulky side; but then so were my other cameras so I'm used to that. At least it is pretty lightweight for its size.2) I'm not such a big fan of the flip out flash, several times I take a nighttime photo and wonder why the flash didn't go off! Just takes getting used to; at least its easy to turn off the flash if you don't want it!3) Where is the high speed/sports setting on the dial? If you want to take high speed shots you will have to dig into the menu system.Overall, this is the best camera I've ever owned of the 5 previous digital cameras; I'm a happy camper :)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Love that zoom! Superfast! Great LCD, Awesome video settings!", "unixReviewTime": 1129939200, "reviewTime": "10 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3E3TUHZHUER7Z", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer \"k3for\"", "helpful": [39, 40], "reviewText": "I read the Amazon reviews, and then bought this camera.  For its required features (IS, AA batt, SD card, 10x+ zoom), the only other consideration were the Panasonics, which are not as available in retail (wanted additional store protection plan - I'm hard on cameras.)1) you can't insert the SD card wrong and ruin the camera, unless you REALLY force it2) the lens cap does not grip the edge tightly, so it does come off easily when you power on the camera (if you forget to take it off).  And if you think it comes off too easily, a touch of tape to the inside rim takes care of that.3) if it's coming out blurry, either the SUBJECT is moving too quickly for the ambient light, or you've got IS turned off.  IS helps compensate for YOUR hand motion.  All CCD digital cameras have *some* trouble in low light; optical zoom does not help this either.4) yes, a slightly plasticky feel - but seems durable enough (and I have a 3-year protection plan so...)5) yes, the macro/super-macro features are not so intuitive as to be used without reading the manual.  And you won't take optimum pictures without reading it anyway.  Ok, so read the full manual (RTFM).6) I get 2 \"working days\" and 400 photos per battery charge with 2300mAH NiMH rechargeables - that's plenty.  Set your power-down time-out appropriately and carry a spare set anyway.-Ryan", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "It's a good camera - dispelling some myths below", "unixReviewTime": 1143504000, "reviewTime": "03 28, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3ET91G60ATKU2", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer \"P.E., CID+, KE7FIZ\"", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "This is my first digital camera, and I'm not a camera buff so I can't really give a detailed objective review.  But we just got back from an Alaska cruise with it and I'm very pleased with the results.  With a gigabyte card and a set of NiMh rechargeables we literally took thousands of pictures.  Batteries easily lasted all day; downloaded the card to the laptop in the evening, and kept on clicking.  Took quite a few excellent video clips too.  I'd buy it again in a heartbeat; in fact I may have to - the kids are always borrowing it (even though they have their own digital cameras) so I might need to get another for myself.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Works for me", "unixReviewTime": 1155859200, "reviewTime": "08 18, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A6VPK7X53QNAQ", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "AmazonDiva \"Keep Calm and Carry On.\"", "helpful": [12, 14], "reviewText": "I have used Canon Powershots from A65 to A75 to A80 and A95 so this Canon S2 IS was a definite upgrade. I love the zoom and the new features like \"my colors\" and the picture quality is better. I do wish the flip screen was larger and easier to see in bright sunlight. But for the Amazon price and the features it is a great camera. The S2 I bought from Amazon said \"Made in Japan\" which makes it extra nice as usually the engineering is better. So even though I love the camera and its many features, my only complaint is that I have not been able to use it as much as my earlier Canon A95 due to it's size. Earlier I used to slip my camera in my pocket even when walking the dog as you never knew when you got a good photo opportunity. And my older cameras always fitted into my handbag so I was never without a camera. Now after upgrading to the S2, I have to carry it in a separate case, so I have not been able to capture everyday moments at work, on the road and flip it out at parties from my tiny purse. Earlier I used to take almost 60-70 shots a week and now it's just during some weekends or vacations. For instance, carrying the S2 on a date seems rather \"geeky\" and you can never carry it unobstrusively. So even though I love the versatility of the S2 I'll have to spend another $300+ to buy the digital elph. And I have a feeling that might get used more often and the S2 would become my vacation or special occasion camera where I can legitimately carrry a big camera without feeling like the \"official photographer\".", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Fantastic camera - just a tad bulky!", "unixReviewTime": 1137628800, "reviewTime": "01 19, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3ERTHGCYNZ1TA", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "A. Thompson \"Skeptic\"", "helpful": [27, 28], "reviewText": "Read some of the other reviews on this camera for in depth analysis on how this camera performs, such as Jim Krupnicks'. Now that the S3 is out, the S2 is coming down in price. It is just 1 step below a full SLR, at half the price. This has a lot of complicated features, but you can use it in auto mode right out of the box - then learn to use the more advanced features as you go along. The 5MP plus the 12x zoom provides all of the resolution for anybody but the professional.As I use this camera more and more, I get more impressed by the ergonomics of it. Not just that it's comfortable in the hand, but for example: No need to go to Movie Mode to make a movie. Just hit the button and it starts recording. Hit it again- it stops,and you're right back in still mode.This is not a pocket camera. That's the decision you have to make. If you just want to pull a camera out of your pocket and make some snaps, go with the Elphs. But for greater flexibility at the expense of size, this it excellent.I highly recommend the lens adapter for this. It protects the lens body in case you drop it, and you can put a UV filter on, which really helps, plus keeps dust off the actual lens. Lensmate makes a 3rd party adapter that is superior to Canons'.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great camera now a great bargain", "unixReviewTime": 1150934400, "reviewTime": "06 22, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1Z706YU1SF8EU", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "Barry K. Brown", "helpful": [29, 31], "reviewText": "A wonderful camera, the quality of the shots both in color and clarity is remarkable. The 12x zoom is excellent and detail is amazing. The camera also has a very good super macro feature which is as good if not better than cameras I have tried costing much more. The selection of \"special\" shots is very useful and appropriate. Adding manual exposure/shutter speed is a nice feature but one I think most people will find redundant. I recommend this camera to anyone who aspires to taking more than \"snapshots\". This is my third Canon camera and I have been very satisfied with all of them and this is certainly the finest I have owned.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "PowerShot S2 IS", "unixReviewTime": 1119484800, "reviewTime": "06 23, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2YQRF5UMH2UTQ", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "Bernard Morey", "helpful": [49, 50], "reviewText": "Background: I've been taking photos for 40 years and did wet photography for many years.  I bought my previous digital camera five years ago but at 2.1 Mp it was past its use-by date.  An upgrade was in order.  After a bit of research - not much - the Canon S2 IS was my choice.  I wanted mega-zoom with image stabilisation, reasonable compactness, and 5+ megapixels.  In the wedding industry, where I have my business,  professional photographers almost universally use Canon digital SLRs so it looked to me that Canon's picture quality and in-camera processing were likely to be superior.I bicycle around Melbourne a lot and a pocket-sized 6-8 Mp camera would be convenient, but that 12x zoom trumps that, even though I have to backpack the camera.  Five megapixels is enough given the sizes I work in - up to A4 - and the zoom means cropping is minimised.Features I like.I won't rehash previous reviewers' comments.  I like the panorama function.  This is much easier to use than that on my old digicam (which required a tripod for alignment) and the Canon PC software does a good job of stitching shots together.  It can do vertical and horizontal pans, or mixtures of the two.  I can retire my 21mm Rokkor now.  The other day I took hand-held multi-shot pans indoors in a sports stadium.  The indicated shutter speed was 1/16 yet the results are good given the difficult conditions.The two-speed zoom is effective and easy to control.  The slow speed makes it easy to frame a shot, and the high speed gets from maximum zoom to wide-angle fast.Shortcomings.I have noticed the problem with focus in low-light even with the focus assist light on.  Sometimes - not always - the camera can't find the focus.  It seems it needs a definite edge to focus on.  Having seen professionals move their cameras slightly to find a focus point I suspect the Canon is no worse than others. I can live with it.A case is not supplied.  Canon is keeping the purchase price down I suppose, but all the same you do need a case.  The official Canon case is ridiculously expense.The lens cap is a slip-on type and is not as secure as one that grips a filter thread, but it's bearable.The small capacity SD card supplied is a cost-cutter and must be augmented immediately.The electronic viewfinder is not as easy to use as an optical viewfinder in daylight, but is better than optical in dim light and displays comprehensive picture information.  The LCD display is small but this is more than offset by the convenience of the swivelling feature.  The latter is great for taking pictures holding the camera over one's head.Lack of a hotshoe flash or sync socket. A strange, and major, omission which dowgrades the camera advanced amateur level to serious amateur level. It will take an expensive Canon-brand (radio sync) flash fitted to an accessory bar but I can't use my high-power zoom flash. This was off-putting but I decided I could live with it as I don't do much photography that requires higher power than than the built-in flash.  And the built in flash is reasonably powerful.It's difficult to give an objective assessment having spent the money - cognitive dissonance and all that - but I certainly don't regret the purchase. I'm getting much pleasure from the camera and its excellent output.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Excellent compromise between pocket camera and DSLR", "unixReviewTime": 1134604800, "reviewTime": "12 15, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3S5H4O1NFD2L1", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "B. Ha", "helpful": [42, 44], "reviewText": "Since most reviews have shown how great this camera is, it would be better if you, as a potential owner, know some issues with this camera. Hence, my review is just for its cons (and how to overcome them), even though the camera is excellent overall.1. This camera has a major problem with its auto-focus feature. There is a good source for you to understand this problem and how to overcome it. Since I can't give you the direct link, you still con find it using google and searching for a term \"Canon S2 focusing issues\".2. The noise of images using ISO 50, 100 and 200 are relatively better than other P&S; camera but at ISO 400, it's bad.3. When recording video and you need to zoom in and out, the sound of the zoom motor is noticeable in quiet environment and will be recorded into your clip. However, if there is some background sounds, it would not be a problem at all.4. If you use alkaline batteries, you can take only about 130 shots before the batteries drain out. But using NiMH batteries, you can take up to 550 shots on one charge.5. The nature length of the lens makes the build-in flash is useless when you want to take some super-macro (new feature) picture where the object is less than an inch from the lens. In this case, you probably need an external flash.6. Using macro focus (not super-macro) will give you some distortion. It's better to use telephoto macro.7. Below F/4, there can be purple fringing (red, blue, purple fringe on edges), specially in bright scenes.For much more in-depth review, you should also take a look at this well-known digital camera review website: DPreview", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent camera, but there are some issues", "unixReviewTime": 1132963200, "reviewTime": "11 26, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AHCVWPLA1O4X8", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "bixodoido", "helpful": [15, 15], "reviewText": "I've had this camera for a few months now.  I bought it for our month-long family vacation, and it definitely fulfilled my need in that respect.  It takes pretty good pictures, is easy to use, and has several great features.  The zoom feature worked really well for me, and the camera is easy to connect to a computer for data transfer.I've noticed a lot of reviewers complaining about difficulty in focusing.  I've noticed this when I try to take close-up portrait shots especially, and in other instances as well.  Another issue I have is that the resolution of the viewfinder is such that it's very difficult to see how well a picture is going to turn out when it's bright outside.The camera doesn't take as good of picture as my SLR camera does, but that's to be expected.  For a family camera this product certainly proved itself very useful to me.  The quality of pictures is good enough for the purpose for which we used it (ie vacation pictures and snapshots), and the camera is very easy to use for casual picture taking. When I went shopping for a digital camera I wanted something that would take high-quality pictures but not carry the price tag of a digital SLR, and I think I found it with this product.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great for casual, good-quality picture taking", "unixReviewTime": 1147824000, "reviewTime": "05 17, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A22KKBJXEGZYA2", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "Boris Pelakh", "helpful": [23, 24], "reviewText": "This camera is everything it is advertised. The photo quality is wonderful, the 12x zoom is very versatile and, along with image stabilization, delivers very crisp pictures. I don't even have the digital zoom enabled, and I have never felt it was necessary.Video mode is very good as well, and the zoom motor is so quiet that it is not picked up by the microphone. The only thing to watch out for is in 640x480x30 mode, each second of video takes almost 2MB, so even a 1GB SD card will hold only about 8 minutes of video.Highly recommended!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Absolutely amazing", "unixReviewTime": 1120521600, "reviewTime": "07 5, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A291XTI6NO7DEG", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "B. T. Denyer \"UX Designer\"", "helpful": [28, 30], "reviewText": "We found that reading the manual will yield the best results.  I know this sounds very obvious, but not everyone does this (me, being one of those people.)We found that the shutter is MUCH FASTER than my Sony DSCP10 Cyber-shot.  MUCH faster.  My Sony is s-l-o-w to take a picture; whereas the Canon focuses, computes and takes the picture in under a second.  My Sony could take up to 5 seconds!  The Canon's responsiveness is very close to that of a normal 35mm film camera (SLR.)  This could be a big deal if you are taking pictures of quick cats or slippery kids, or anything else that is good at dodging the camera.The overall feel of camera is solid and lasting.  I have my doubts that if I dropped this on cement that the lens and body will be able to take the blow, but I have yet found a reason to test this out and haven't had the opportunity to do so accidentally.  The buttons feel good, should survive some repeated use and are well-placed.  Maybe with the exception of the shutter button: I found it a little difficult to hold the camera with one hand while pointing it at me and my wife (you know, the obligatory self-portrait-picture-taking when no one is around to do it for you.)  The shutter button is on the top-front of the camera and I found it hard to get my finger on it AND hold it.  No biggie, just noticed it.However, we noticed that a finger on our left hand covered the Auto-Focus lens when gripping the camera in a natural manner.  I also noticed that it wasn't just us; I witnessed a couple hand this very same camera to a stranger to take their picture and she immediately placed her finger over the Auto-Focus lens.  Why does this matter?  The camera sends out a beam to judge the distance and focus the lens - cover it and the camera can't focus properly.  The viewing screen is small enough that you might not notice the out of focus picture until you get home.Another issue: pictures look BEAUTIFUL on the little flip-out screen, but when downloaded we saw that some looked very much out of focus (operator error, not the camera.)  Point: the little screen makes all of the pictures look good, so take two or more shots to be sure!YOU MUST BUY RECHARGABLE BATTERIES!  You paid enough for the camera, so you pay hundreds more in batteries??  This camera needs four (4) AA batteries, and can go through them by the time you fill up a 1 GB card.  The little flip-out screen will consume your batteries' life, so I HIGHLY recommend two sets of four 2500 mAh AA rechargeable batteries that you can rotate through.  (You will thank me after you get half-way through your day and your regular batteries are dead.)A really cool feature is the Diopter Adjustment.  This will be VERY beneficial for those that wear glasses but DON'T wear them while looking through the view finder (some of us don't always use the little flip-out screen.)  You can dial in an adjustment so that the display information will appear clearly.  There are many LITTLE icons around the edges of the viewing area in the view finder, and if you can't see them or your subjects clearly because you have taken off your glasses then your picture taking will suffer.The pictures we have taken with this Powershot are crispy, clear and close to life-like color (which means less PhotoShopping later.)  BUT! you must configure your camera's \"SCN\" (Special Scene Mode) to match your environment in order to take great pictures!  This includes Foliage, Snow, Beach, Fireworks, Indoor, and Night Snapshot.  This won't be your only adjustment, but it will take you from out-of-the-box to shooting-better-pictures quickly.I highly recommend this camera.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great!  ...just read the manual for best results.", "unixReviewTime": 1135814400, "reviewTime": "12 29, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3P2JENZ6RSJ05", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "cambro \"cambro31\"", "helpful": [15, 17], "reviewText": "I just returned from an overseas trip, where I took a bunch of photos under a variety of conditions.  I was pleasantly surprised by the quality of the images.Here's the good:1. Battery life is excellent!  Get NiMH rechargeable batteries and you will be able shoot hundreds of photos and power up and down numerous times on a single go!2. Quiet operation.  The camera is virtually silent if you want it to be.3. Rotating LCD.  This is extremely handly for overhead shots and discrete photos if you are one of those who doesn't like blatantly obvious in your face type shooting.4.  Images turned out much better than I thought they would based on the LCD preview.5. Zoom is obviously very versatile and handy.6. Secure SD is small and cheap.  I got several 1Gig cards for about $30.Here's the not so good:1. Autofocus can be a little slow/inacurrate/finiky and this can be very frustrating.2. Macromode is sub-par or I couldn't figure out how to use it effectively.  This was a major disappointment, particularly as the preview photos looked ambiguous (they turned out much, much better once put on my iMac).3. Size.  It's a little on the big size, but build feels solid.4. Color saturation or \"something\" sometimes too intense.  The images are a little TOO vivid/saturated sometimes.Summary:  For the price, I'm very pleased with performance and do not regret owning this handy little point and shoot with manual options.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Good for general use travel camera", "unixReviewTime": 1152057600, "reviewTime": "07 5, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3TJX1R1WQPP18", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "Chris L", "helpful": [25, 28], "reviewText": "This was a good camera while it worked. I did not like the fact that Canon took away the ability for us to fit on a filter to protect the lens just so that they could sell us an optional bulky device to fit filters on (They will probably make the lens an option next time around). This is a big deal given that the lens cap fits very loosely and falls off at the slightest touch - I cant tell you how many times I have accidently touched the lens when reaching for the camera.Additionally, the manual focusing/macro focusing buttons are not the least bit intuitive.  In this, Canon can take some lessons from the Minolta Dimage....the manual focus is true manual focus - the outside ring turns to manually focus the camera.  With the Canon, you have to remember what combination of buttons to press to manually focus.The compartment that stores the SD card is neatly fitted onto the side and slides open with some pressure, and then rotates neatly to the side - well done.  Just above that compartment, where Canon could have used a similarly-styled compartment for the USB connections - if for no other reason than consistency - it has chosen to use a cheap rubber flap that gets in the way of the USB plug.The optics and electronics worked wonderfully for just over a year and then something went wrong and my camera stopped working. The LED light comes on but the lens does not extend and the viewfinder/LCD Screen didnt work.This was my 9th Canon camera from 1977 but my first Canon digital and probably my last.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Decent Camera While It Worked", "unixReviewTime": 1140393600, "reviewTime": "02 20, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A24957HBA987VN", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "C. Moore \"The Authorguy\"", "helpful": [19, 19], "reviewText": "First thing, I won't go over all the features of this little camera, just let it be said that you'll seldom find it unable to do what you need it to.We have two nice DSLRs in our house, with a battery of lenses, but when I head out the door, 90% of the time I grab the S2 instead of one of the more expensive cameras. Why? It's smaller, easier to carry, has the extended zoom range, and uses AA batteries. It's better to have a camera that you'll actually take with you, than one that takes great photos but is awkward to travel with or carry so it stays at home.While everyone goes on about how great the image stabilizer is with the long lense, (which is is) it also shines when you're in a low light situation, like a museum, where you can't use flash. I have a great collection of art photos from museums around the country that I could have never taken with one of our Nikon D70s without a tripod.The only limitations I find in the S2 is that it doesn't have an especially wide angle view, but none of the \"ultra-zoom\" cameras do, so it's not something you can fault it for.For low light, another stop in the ISO (from 400 to 800) would be nice, which Canon has put on the S3, so if you want that feature you can get it.While the camera will do most anything in manual and specialized modes, you don't have to know anything about cameras to get good pictures, and I've handed it to a half-dozen novices to use for the day and they've all come back with good shots.I've had many brands of digital cameras, Olympus, Fuji, Sony, Nikon, and Casio, and for point and shoots, Canon just does it right. (For D-SLRS, however, I have to go with the Nikons.)As far as mega-pixels, the reality of it is that most of the time you'll be reducing the size of your pictures to use them on the internet on in e-mails, so unless you need the extra features and plan to make big prints, the S2 has plenty of resolution for most purposes, which makes it a great deal price-wise.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "My Go-To Camera", "unixReviewTime": 1152662400, "reviewTime": "07 12, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3HRTSBFHCCOJK", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "CMOS", "helpful": [26, 28], "reviewText": "I am a professional photographer and so do not use it for my own work, however I purchased this model for a family member who is new to digital photography. I felt the quality that comes with the Canon brand, and the range of features made it a good buy. I was not disappointed.The camera is somewhat more \"plasticy\" feeling than I had anticipated and it's a tad smaller that I'd like but since the person I bought for has small hands, it is just right. The shooting menu and main menu system in general are easily accessible, as are the on-camera controls. The preview zoom is particularly easy to use, as it employs the same button and method as zooming the lens while shooting. Ultimately though it is this camera's lens that sets it apart from anything at or below its price range.Definitely worth a look if you're a serious shutterbug looking for a simple but high quality digital camera.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great Little Camera!", "unixReviewTime": 1141862400, "reviewTime": "03 9, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A321UWX6A3K66B", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "Craig", "helpful": [17, 17], "reviewText": "I recently decided to dump my (still fairly modern) AF film SLR and get a dSLR. After doing all of my research, I decided to go with this camera instead. As a stand-alone camera, the zoom range is fantastic, not quite as wide as I wanted, but that's fixable. Image quality is fantastic w/ the IS turned on, and the lens is super fast. Try to get a 400mm f/3.5 lens for your film SLR, or for that matter a 300mm f/3.5 lens for your dSLR, and you'll be spending 10x the price of this camera on the lens alone. It's small, light, and has very good battery life.If you want to add the flexibility you'd have with an SLR, get the adapter-- Canon makes a decent plastic rig that has a 58mm thread, and lensmate online makes a great aluminum adapter w/ a 52mm thread. I got the 52mm lensmate adapter, a Raynox 6600 0.66x wide adapter, and UV and circular polarizer filters. W/ the wide adapter, I get field of view equivalent to a 24mm lens on film, with very acceptable barrel distortion & resolution (no worse than my old canon 24mm lens). W/ the filters, I can get the polarization & everything else I was used to on my SLR. My total gear pack weighs about half of what I was used to when lugging everything for a hike. A very positive change indeed.The only two things missing from this camera are the ability to shoot RAW images, and a hot shoe or PC connector for better lighting control. Canon sells a rig w/ a slave flash on it, seems o.k. but there's no way to do true off-camera lighting w/ this machine.Overall, I think this camera is everything a serious amater needs as long as you're not doing a lot of portrait work w/ sophisticated lighting. And since the S3 IS is shipping in another month, with very limited upgrades (1MP larger images, that's about it), the price is really dropping on the S2. This represents a fantastic value for a high-end digital.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great camera, super value, and expandable", "unixReviewTime": 1144800000, "reviewTime": "04 12, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1C42AM2VZLR1D", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "Danlib \"Danlib\"", "helpful": [10, 16], "reviewText": "The Good:While it worked, it took fantastic pictures.The 12x zoom is great.The image stabilization works perfectly.Uses AA batteries.The Bad:The 1.8\" LCD is too small.The autofocus is slower than my Nikon.You can't have the LCD and viewfinder on at the same time.It died after less than 2 weeks, 3 days into a once in a lifetime vacation. Thank goodness, I brought my Nikon too.Really Good:Amazon issued credit without any problem.I'm replacing it with the Panasonic DMC-FZ7S. I haven't got it yet, but will review after I've had it a few weeks.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Great Pictures, but died in less than 2 weeks", "unixReviewTime": 1146614400, "reviewTime": "05 3, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AQ0Q9R8RWJTDI", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "David P. Faulk", "helpful": [15, 15], "reviewText": "I own a Canon 20D SLR as well as a Canon G5 and a Nikon S1. I bought the S2 IS for the zoom as well as Canon's quality. We ride ATVs a lot and I don't like taking the SLR with all the dust generated along the trail. This little camera gives me the zoom that I didn't have with the other portable cameras and the IS is a great addition. I have taken pictures and movies with the camera and the shots come out very nice. I like the fact that it uses 4 AA batteries so even if my rechargeables fade I can always pick up replacements.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A GREAT CAMERA", "unixReviewTime": 1164585600, "reviewTime": "11 27, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2O2XN26EWSIJL", "asin": "B0009GZSSO", "reviewerName": "Drowned", "helpful": [21, 26], "reviewText": "I love this camera. It has everything I wanted on a camera plus a whole lot more. I had a Sony P-73 before this one the image quality doesn't even come close to the S2! What was I thinking when I bought that Sony? The S2 comes with full-manual controls and a very capable automatic mode for those who want to just point and shoot. 12x optical zoom, great macro mode (0cm in super macro mode!), amazing movie mode plus you get image stabilization! What else can you ask for on a camera? Canon really made a great job!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best ultra zoom camera out there!", "unixReviewTime": 1119744000, "reviewTime": "06 26, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2P7T94KQGQVZC", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "Alexander Reeser \"vilago\"", "helpful": [23, 26], "reviewText": "Ok. You all know the jist of this new ipod: it plays music, videos, and displays pictures all done in full color with style! The other reviewers on this page certainly have a knack for telling you the rundown of what this mp3 player can do. I have myself owned 3 ipods (including this one) in the last 7 months. Why? We'll get to that in a second.Anyway, if you were thinking about getting an mp3 player but you dont want to buy this one becausea) ill never fill the damn thing!b) its just too expensive andc) everyone's got one and I dont want to look like everyone elsewell i have a few reasons why you should. To counter my last statements chronologically:1) you need room for expansion and your ever-changing tastes not to mention the \"leave me by the side of the road\" trends of technology. In other words, you cant predict the future.2) dont be cheap. seriously, good technology (like this) comes at a price and you may spend less for another player but you certainly WILL get less. To summarize, just open a bank account and save! its what they're for. And finally3) Come on! you know as well as I thats a stupid reason not to get one of these. Give me an excuse that \"the sound quality is just not good enough\" or \"ill never use it\" and Ill accept that. Dont say you dont want to get it just to fight the undertow of popular culture. In short, there's a reason why everyone's got one of these just like there's a reason everyone's got a honda; it just flat does what its supposed to.Now, some of you might not like some of what I'm about to say next. Thats fine. Keep in mind that this is my opinion and you know as well as I if you were thinking about getting one of these (or not) you will do what you want no matter how many bad or good things I say about it.Now that that's out of the way, on to my review.To summarize bluntly, this is the best ipod ever made in every single way including sound quality. You may have liked your old ipod but by god this one is like comparing a ford escort to a lexus ls430; its just better and beefier in every single way.Well, I have to say that the photo aspect of the video is just like a regular ol' photo. It displays pictures. whoopty doo. unless your a major photophile, this aspect probably wont intersest you enough to buy it just for this feature.The video aspect is certainly a refreshing and sort of strange addition to this new device. I say its strange because if you think about it, by definition an mp3 player is designed to play music and only music. The addition of video turns this device into something else which doesnt really have a name yet. Maybe we can call it \"multimedia device\" for now and leave it at that. The screen is really still too small for this sort of feature, even considering this is the largest ipod screen ever. The screen is plenty crisp by the way and displays videos nicely.For music this is probably the best mp3 ever made up til now: It's got plenty of room, its small (but not too small), the sound quality is superb and is free from distortion in the high frequencies (which is why I abandoned my old ipod photo 60GB. the distortion is inherent in all photo ipods), and its compatible with most computers out there.Now that Ive basically turned the ipod into the holy grail, its not without flaws.The video aspect is great but unfortunately if you want to watch videos in good quality, you must watch it in \"widscreen\" which further reduces the viewing area. You can turn off the widescreen but it severely cuts off the sides of the picture and degrades quality. Annoying, but this feature can be fixed with future updates and a standardization of resolution for videos played on the ipod. And also, the battery life for watching videos really just bites. You get 2-3 hours. Part of this has to do with the huge size of some videos and also the fact that the backlight stays on when watching videos. Again, some standardizing will help this. In addition, you can watch ANY video on your ipod, but you must convert it to a format that the player can understand. You can do this with quicktime pro, but it takes FOREVER. I'm sure there are other ways to do it which dont cost any money, but i have QTP so I didnt look into this.Music is played back with refreshing clarity and crispness that has been lacking in all ipods up to this point. Even if you arent an audiophile, you will hear the difference. Unfortunately, with these new ipods, apple has decided that everyone has usb 2.0 on their computers and has abandoned firewire. Most people who buy ipods are windows users, but I'm a mac user and the lack of firewire basically kills this purchase for me. Most people wont care, but for those who do, be warned.Finally, to explain why this is my 3rd ipod purchase: crappy sound quality, and I dont mean from compression artifacts. All and I mean all photo ipods have a distortion which can be heard on music which is abundant in high frequencies and has plenty of audio \"space,\" like a piano solo. Check out my review of the 60 GB ipod to get more details. Fortunately, the video does not have this problem.So, there you have it. This is a great player in every way. All the flaws that the player has with playing video can be fixed with a software update which will come once more people have the player. The battery life is VERY good with the exception of playing videos, and the SQ for music is the best of any mp3 player Ive ever heard. Once more standardization comes along, we will all be watching episodes of \"smallville\" on the metro ride to work. I give this player 4 and 1/2 stars for the lack of firewire because that is an important feature which I think should have been included.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "So close to perfect!", "unixReviewTime": 1131408000, "reviewTime": "11 8, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A33AJ1MSMEIA3C", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "Anne", "helpful": [22, 24], "reviewText": "I have to say, this thing really impressed me.  I had a lot of doubts and worries about it as I have strict guidelines for electronics, but those are all gone now.The Good:- Assuming you encode your movies correctly, video playback is awesome.  The quality all depends on the movies you have.  I have a lot of HDTV 24 episodes and they look just like they do on my computer monitor.  IF YOU ENCODE INCORRECTLY THEY WILL NOT PERFORM WELL.-  Sound is gorgeous.  Even with those earbuds (which any real audiophile should replace anyway), the music sounds great.  There are also about 25 presets in the EQ you can choose from like Electronic, Dance, Classical, and so on.  Depending on the properties of your music, the Ipod can go pretty loud and still remain distortion-free.  Again, this depends on YOUR music files and NOT the Ipod.- Screen.  I think it could be a bit bigger, but it does the job well.  Mine is scratch free as I left the protective film it ships with on and just put a silicone case over top of that.  The plastic is a bit scratched up, but the screen underneath is fine.  Common sense would tell anyone to leave that protective film ON the device and not to pick at it or it will come off.- Options.  There are a lot of things that can be manipulated and changed.  Menus, back-light, clicker, etc.  There are also a few games like Music Quiz, where it plays a few seconds of one of your songs and you have to choose the right one out of 5 or so choices.  And, there is a diagnostic menu to test the performance of your Ipod in all areas.  Really cool.- Battery Life.  I put this in the good since it performs as I would expect.  Who is the dummy that actually mentioned 75 hours of battery life?  During video playback, the most you will get is 2.5 hours of battery life.  Let me say that again for those who lack common sense.  YOU GET 2.5 HOURS OF BATTERY LIFE DURING VIDEO PLAYBACK.  The more you use the back-light while listening to music, the less battery life you will have.  75 hours applies to never touching the thing and just letting it go through your music.  Even then, I doubt you will get 75 hours.Also, you MUST follow the instructions when first charging it.  Portable batteries are VERY sensitive to charge cycles.  If you don't charge it like you should, your battery is gonna suck.  It is HIGHLY recommended that you DO NOT let the battery life decrease past half.  There are a number of cycles for each battery and the objective is to avoid ever using an entire cycle.The Bad:- This is a hard drive based MP3 player so every so often it takes about a second longer to skip to the next track.  If this bothers you, you need a Flash memory MP3 player.- Battery life again.  Expectations aren't everything.  The next model really needs an upgraded battery.  Charging this thing constantly if you watch movies is a real pain.  It could be so much better and I feel that Apple really cut corners with the battery.- Scratches.  It does happen if you are stupid enough to walk around without a case.  THE IPOD NEEDS A CASE.  Any portable gadget needs a case.  Technology has been around long enough for people to know this.  There is no excuse.- Having to encode movies.  Why can't Itunes do that?  This was another bad choice for Apple unless they are catering to geeks only, which is fine by me.  Seriously, if you are not that computer savvy then this is not the video player for you.  You need to have an understanding of audio/video compression to get the most out of this player.Apple doesn't even have a program to encode muxed files, which a lot of internet content are.  I highly recommend everyone to 'acquire' Nero Digital from Nero 6.  It is the best converter out there at the moment that negates any sync problems.  ImToo and Videora are completely useless and make very poor files.- No wireless.  Right now, wireless headphones for the Ipod Video are practically non-existent.  Logitech seems to be trying to alleviate that, but their headphones are currently riddled with manufacturer defects and don't even support the Video.  Let's move it along Apple.  We need wireless.- Earbuds.  For the first few months, they are fantastic.  But, eventually they seem to adopt vibration problems and hearing a rattle in my right ear is REALLY annoying.All in all, it is the best MP3 player on the market right now.  Period.  There just isn't enough support for it from Apple or anyone else.  Vehicles are just now coming Ipod ready and that is limited to certain models.  Where is our support?  Apple?  Anyone?", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Nice little gadget!", "unixReviewTime": 1144108800, "reviewTime": "04 4, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A36JO8IHKYBMMJ", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "Bart Motes", "helpful": [20, 46], "reviewText": "Apple is a tricky, tricky company these days. The bar they set in terms of functionality have been adequately met. So Apple is not content to rest on their laurels, instead drastically increasing the cachet and sexiness of the Ipod...again. How do they do it? What levels of despair must a well-intentioned executive at Iriver who tries to point out all the technological superiorities of their device be at? Apple has also managed to do what BMW successfully does with their BMW 3-series: create a product for the masses with elite cachet. People will rush to buy these.The rest is just details: improved battery life? Good, but that's not getting people in the stores. Video capacity? Brilliant, brilliantly timed move: proof of concept was done with podcasts in terms of content, and the message is thinking about getting a competitor's video compatible model? Don't bother. Video's a sideshow anyway, but we do it too...and sexier. Imagine you're the competitor and trying to explain, no, no, no, you don't understand, our pixel rate is X while Ipod's is Y.Apple's Ipod campaign will be studied in business schools for years. Oh yeah, it's the best Ipod yet---but does that even matter? Give the devil his due.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Apple scores......again", "unixReviewTime": 1129248000, "reviewTime": "10 14, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A5FS50VW0GWEE", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "Baseball \"Johnny\"", "helpful": [13, 43], "reviewText": "This iPod is one of a kind and I can't wait until I get my hands on one. This isn't a video player indeed but, an iPod that finally has video capabilities, come on, who doesn't want to buy that? There are two colors available for it, black and white, just like the iPod nano. People have noticed that this iPod looks a little wider than the original iPod but it's not true. The dimensions for the new iPod are 4.1\" x 2.4\" x .4\" and the dimensions for the original iPod are 4.1\" x 2.1\" x .57\". So if you think that it's wider it's really not, you might think that because now this iPod has a beautiful 2.5\" color LCD display! Well, it's not a major improvement from the 2\" screen of the color 20GB iPod but, it's still looks really nice. The resolution of the screen is 320 x 240-pixels while the 20GB iPod's was 160 x 128-pixels. Plus, this iPod is really thin compared to the original, it's about 40% thinner which is incredible especially since it's 30-gigabytes (7500 songs). It's the same price as the original iPod, $299.99, and the box includes the iPod, case, USB cable, headphones, and software/booklets. It's not great but since Apple wants us to think like it's such a great deal for a video-iPod for only $299.99! It's really not, it probably costs Apple like forty bucks to make. So, don't go thinking that it's a good deal while it's not. The old iPod (1G, 2G, 3G) included a better case, firwire AND USB cable (3G for USB), dock (3G), charger (you don't need to charge it from the USB cable from your computer), and much more. The only major improvement is the video-capabilities which, aren't perfected like a PVP's might be. Downloading movies hopefully are easier than the PSP which converting is such a hassle! I don't own it but, hopefully if I get it, it will satisfy my needs. But with it's 14 hour battery life, movies, games, music and more this iPod is looks really nice but, we don't know how it really is. But, I would definetly look into it!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best iPod To Date", "unixReviewTime": 1129248000, "reviewTime": "10 14, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2YAABMT80RLYA", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "Ben Rowland", "helpful": [24, 26], "reviewText": "Having spent over one year with my iPod mini, and being largely happy with it despite it's shortfalls in battery life and space, I decided to upgrade to the new fifth generation of iPod. The video option has no appeal for me, as I cannot imagine watching a TV show on the small screen, and there are few music videos that I would give more than one viewing to. As such, my review of this is based strictly on music playback performance on the 30 GB model.Pros:1) Better battery life. This is a big deal for me, as I am always out and about, with music being an important part of everyday life. My mini could manage a maximum of 4 hours, and that's with minimal song skipping. The new iPod Video certainly performs much better. Without using the backlight, the high EQ setting, and skipping songs as I please, I have managed to get an average of 10 to 12 hours out of it.2) Larger capacity. I am a massive music fan, so I am pleased to have room for over 7,500 songs to have and enjoy while I'm on the go.3) Better screen. While it can be a little hard if you have the backlight turned off, I find the screen to be a vast improvement over the monochrome display screens on the older generations. The colors are rich and vibrant, and the blacks and browns are as sharp as you would expect from a computer screen.4) Sound quality remains strong. I have noticed little difference between the sound quality on my iPod mini and the iPod video, except that the latter has slightly less distortion when songs are played at high volume.5) Intuitive menu system. The menus are as easy to navigate as they are on the older generations, with slight improvements on the fonts and color scheme.6) Slimmer design. This helps to avoid the telltale bulge that the older, thicker iPods seemed to cause.7) It's eye-candy. Let's face it, iPods are becoming a fashion accessory. The black one in particular is attractive.Cons:1) The only \"extras\" included are the USB 2.0 cable, the earphones, and on more recent models shipped, a slipcase that will keep the iPod free of scratches and smudges...for a short while (see below.) Others items, like the belt clip, the firewire cable, and the wall adapter are not included.2) The shiny plastic finish attracts and alarming amount of fingerprints, smudges, and scratches, especially on the black models. The semi-soft slipcase will only go so far in protecting the iPod, so a proper case is recommended.3) The \"smart jack\" has been removed! If you don't know the term, this is the small plug that existed next to the headphone jack on all older models. This means if you were using the remote control, iTrip, car kit, or other peripheral item, it will not work on this model.4) No Firewire support. The fifth generation no longer supports transferring songs via Firewire, however you can still use the cable to charge the iPod if you are using the wall plug adapter.5) There is an occasional delay you might encounter when skipping songs, as the iPod is processing a large amount of data at one time, and this lasts for about 3 seconds. I have heard other say that the menus sometimes freeze up, but I have never encountered this.6) The battery is apparently soldered onto the motherboard, so if you are considering doing a battery replacement yourself at some point, it may not be possible.Considering the value in terms of price and wealth of space, the new iPod video has been a good investment. I am still in the honeymoon period with it, having only had it for about 2 months, but the performance has so far been excellent.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "A sound investment for anyone needing a new iPod.", "unixReviewTime": 1149379200, "reviewTime": "06 4, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AHCVWPLA1O4X8", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "bixodoido", "helpful": [26, 26], "reviewText": "This is the first iPod I've ever owned, having never really given the new technology a chance to replace my affection for CDs.  When I finally relented and bought this product, I immediately began to wonder how I ever lived without it.  I have over 400 CDs, and took the time (and it did take a lot of time) to put the stuff I wanted from each of them.  The result is that I have my entire music collection at my fingertips at all times, and have not used even 20% of the memory.The obvious great feature (in terms of music, at least) of the 30 GB iPod is the ease at which you can listen to any or all of your favorite music.  One very nice, sometimes overlooked, aspect of the iPod is the shuffle feature.  With over 1500 songs on my iPod, I can hit the shuffle button and I instantly have the equivalent of my own radio station, with the added advantages of having NO songs I don't like and having zero commercials.  The shuffle does not seem to be completely random (I tend to get several songs from the same artists in a relatively short period of time), but that is a minor problem.Given the iPod's thin design and portability, you can take it wherever you go.  I've got a car adapter for it, a home speaker system, and of course the headphones.  Because of that it's literally replaced every other sound system (radios, CD players, etc) I own.  As a huge fan of music I've been amazed at how much my music experience has been enriched by this product.Of course I've only highlighted a small part of the iPod.  I plan on loading pictures onto it soon, and you can download video as well.  It's even got a few games.  In short, this is quite possibly the best entertainment investment I've made in quite a while.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Taking your music (and video!) to a new level", "unixReviewTime": 1147219200, "reviewTime": "05 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1XEURHL26CJ12", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "Budaboy", "helpful": [10, 20], "reviewText": "There is a problem with the coating.  I put my new 60gig in my deadipod 3G's case, since the case it comes with is unuseable.Yes ipods do die, and they die young. Hard Drive, moveing parts, jogging, need I say more, it was my third one replaced by apple in my first year, untill my warranty ran out.Anyway it fitted in there and I was happy for a day, then I pulled it out to show someone and would you believe scratches from the case.I think they picked the coating for looks not durability. I have the black ipod.The backs always scratched easily and now the front as well.The ipod has issues but the truth is there is no good alternative.  Seems if sony had thought things out better the PSPcould have done it. But for now Apple has the Stage!", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Yes Scratches Galore", "unixReviewTime": 1130457600, "reviewTime": "10 28, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A671B2YEK1IWC", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "Consumer \"flymach1\"", "helpful": [29, 43], "reviewText": "This thing is great for music and video. It does all it says. However, it does scratch like crazy. This will be a problem when the video window gets too scratched to be viewed well. I bought this for the video, so to me it is not something I can rate highly. Apple needs to put a little money into a better plastic face for this thing and then it would be just about perfect. As it stands, it is not acceptable. Go see one of these on display in a store and compare it to cheaper units. They are not going to be scratched, but this is. Try it yourself before you buy. I would wait until Apple fixes this before you buy. They have a class action against them for the Nano and it's cheap cover. They should have used better materials in this product. Obviously they have decided they can get away with this shoddy material. I think there will be another class action for this. Don't think Apple will try to get away with ignoring a problem and then be forced to fix it after a lawsuit? How about the battery issues they are having to own up to on previous iPods. They knew they were wrong and they tried to fight it, now they are having to replace/ pay for batteries.  If you have to buy this now, DON'T use it until you have a protective cover. So far you won't find a cover that fits the video version in most stores. I'm buying a $25 invisible shield for mine from an online vendor. Apple should have built it better, charged $25 more and made this product a catch instead of a scratch.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Great except for scratches which can ruin it", "unixReviewTime": 1131753600, "reviewTime": "11 12, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3GKOMCQTTWPUI", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "David Foskin \"SneakyGoblin on XBL\"", "helpful": [19, 22], "reviewText": "iPod Video 5th Generation ReviewThe 5G (5th generation) iPod with Video and Photo viewing capabilities is the latest evolution in the iPod line. The key word here is evolution, as, for the most part, it only includes a few minor improvements from the previous 4th generation iPod. Read on, and I'll tell you exactly what I think of this hot new product.InstallingInstalling the iPod, I decided to just plug it into my computer. Unfortunately, the iPod locked up! That seemed pretty bad to me. After browsing the web a while, I figured out how to reboot the frozen iPod (hold down the middle select button and the menu button at the same time for about 6 seconds to reset/reboot it). Also, make sure that the iPod hold switch is not set when you try to reboot it. After rebooting, I decided to upgrade my iTunes from 6.0 to the most current version at the time (6.0.1.3) just to be safe, and then plugged in the iPod again, and it worked this time.DesignThe 5G iPod has the same classic iPod look of the 4th generation design. From a design standpoint, it is gorgeous, the same width and height as the 1st generation iPod, but about half the thickness. It has a classy and classic design that looks beautiful and elegant. In the hand it feels nice- moderate weight but solid. One thing that you'll notice is how minimalist the design is- there are very few buttons and knobs and switches. The most notable thing is its round touch wheel which has 4 buttons embedded on it and a button in the center. The 4 clickwheel buttons have a nice tactile feedback when you push on them, however, they are completely flat on the touch wheel. In fact, it's so minimalist that there is not even an on/off switch (you have to hold the pause button down for several seconds and then flip the hold switch). There is no volume knob- you use the touch wheel (which also serves also to scroll through songs and also for rating your songs). Sadly, the latest touchwheel is a downgrade from all previous versions. It is much more \"twitchy\", and error-prone than the one on my second generation iPod mini, and much inferior to my 1st generation mechanical wheel in feel and accuracy.The LCD screen is color and it's beautiful. It is 2.5\" diagonal and has a resolution of 320x240. Videos look good on the screen. Motion is clear and smooth, though the screen is really too small to watch long movies on. On the top edge, there is one headphone jack and a hold switch. On the bottom, there's a custom connector which you can use a cable to connect to your computer's USB port (Firewire is no longer supported). No docking station is included, a money-saving tactic on Apple's part.I Call It ScratchyThe 5G iPod has a very scratch-prone screen. In fact, after just 1 day of using it gently, and putting it in my pocket (without any metal objects or coins) it somehow developed far more scratches than my 3 month old 2G iPod mini which was not babied at all. In fact, it's rather upsetting that the screen in some parts is so marred with scratches that it causes video playback to sometimes shimmer in that area. At least Apple now includes a new ultra-thin neoprene-like case. I like the case a lot, it's very simple but compact and provides just enough protection for carrying around without adding much bulk.FeaturesThe iPod is fairly light on features. It plays music files in AAC format (used by Apple's iTunes music store) and plays MP3s and Apple Lossless format. Apple has finally added reasonable recording support (though you need to buy a separate add-on microphone). And, the big news is, Apple's video support. Actually, video support is pretty good. Apple's web site says it supports H.264 video at 320x240 resolution at up to 768 kbits/second, or MPEG-4 resolutions of up to 480x480, and 2.5Mbits/second but. The MPEG-4 video size limit is slightly misleading, as it in reality supports resolutions that have up to 480x480=230,400 pixels. That means with a normal 1.33 aspect ratio, it can actually do up to 554x415 pixels (good for output to a TV, the built-in screen is 320x240 and downsizes the video shown to fit the built-in screen). Note, using higher resolutions increases file sizes significantly and could severely decrease battery life because of the increased computation power needed. Other reasonable resolutions for a 1.33 aspect ratio are 512x384 or 480x360. I've decided to standardize my video content on 480x360 at 1.5Mbits/sec. as a reasonable compromise in terms of quality and space.Photo viewing on the 2.5\" screen is very nice. However, Apple left out the most important feature, being able to zoom in on the details of an image. Even my obsolete 3 year old digital camera could do that. Also, the iPod doesn't support viewing RAW photo file formats.There is still no FM radio, there is no bluetooth wireless connectivity built in (you can buy extra 3rd party addons for bluetooth, but really, it should be built in), there is no 3rd party software support for applications to run on the iPod. I hope they'll correct these deficiencies soon. There are a few extras like an alarm clock which which is practically useless because the built-in speaker is so weak, and there are a couple of games that aren't very good.Other extras include a contact manager, a calendar, and the ability to show text notes.A recently added feature is support for Podcasts. Podcasts have their own menu and also are bookmarked if you switch to something else in the middle of listening to one. Also, a dot appears next to podcasts that have not yet been listened to (a nice touch). Happily, smart playlists work correctly (if you set the star ratings for a song for instance, it will dynamically get updated on the iPod without having to re-sync with the computer). This feature had been broken by Apple for my 2nd generation mini with Firmware version 1.3.In UseWith all this talk about design and features, we shouldn't forget, it's all about the audio. My opinion is, the iPod's audio quality is very good. Audio is clear and clean. It seems to be an improvement on the iPod Mini I own, as it doesn't seem to have audio glitches when switching tracks. I'm not an audiophile, so you may want to check for yourself if you're particularly picky. Overall, I'm happy with the audio quality.Where the iPod really shines is on the software side. iTunes integration is fantastic. Keeping your music in sync between the computer and the iPod works really well. iTunes is great at managing your music, if you are willing to give it full control over organizing your music- I fought this for a while, but in the end gave in as it's just easier to let it manage and consolidate your collection. It has nice little features like finding duplicate songs so you can clean up your collection. The iTunes user interface and functionality is excellent.Playlist management in iTunes is fantastic. It is easy to create playlists and rearrange music within playlists. In addition, playlist management is very good on the iPod itself as well. Smart playlists are playlists that dynamically get updated (for instance, you can have a playlist of all 5 star rated songs, or of the most recent songs you've downloaded). You can create on-the-go playlists on the iPod directly, which is one feature I really love.This 30GB 5G iPod I own is advertised as having an 14 hour battery life, or 2 hours for video. The iPod battery is also not easily replaceable, so you can't just switch batteries when it runs out, instead, you have to recharge the iPod. Your battery results may vary. (Come back later for a full report on battery life!)Video content is now available on iTunes. However, the quality and the restrictions are a joke. You pay $1.99 for video content (such as music videos, or TV shows) but you get poor quality 320x240 resolution videos that you can NOT burn to DVD. Low quality and severe restrictions, together with a lack of much content to begin with is a disappointment.Trouble in paradise:There is a very dark side to using the iPod and iTunes, however. Apple has been very consumer unfriendly by refusing to let iTunes protected AAC format music to interoperate with other software and other MP3 players. You can not play music purchased on iTunes using any other MP3 player on the market. Although you can burn the music onto CD and then rip it again, that is a rather annoying and time-consuming barrier. Furthermore, if you purchase music from any other online store such as Real's or one that supports WMF, you can not play it in the iPod. In fact Apple has threatened to sue Real for making their music files playable on the iPod. This level of anti-consumer monopolistic behavior is beyond comprehension, for a company that has so much going for it. They basically lock you into their system and keep you there through incredibly anti-consumer practices. There is no excuse for Apple's monopolistic behavior and consumer unfriendliness here. They have a good product that stand on its own merits.A Note on iTunes Encoding Sound Quality:When ripping songs from your CDs, you need to think about what sound quality you will be happy with. The audio encoder and quality settings are found in the iTunes Preferences (under the Edit menu --> Preferences), and select the \"Importing\" tab. The general consensus is, the high quality 128K bps AAC setting is adequate for most purposes, though definitely not CD quality. In general it's a lot of trouble importing your entire CD collection into iTunes, so, I recommend picking a higher bit rate AAC encoding to get higher quality (select the \"Custom\" option). I experimented with MP3 encoding and it seems to be produce poorer quality audio in iTunes. I ended up choosing the AAC Encoder at 192 Kbps, which is a reasonable compromise in terms of space usage and audio quality. At this quality level, all but the most serious audiophiles should be satisfied. See A Report on Apple's iTunes AAC Compared to CD. See also the iPod Audio Page for more details on audio quality.CONCLUSION:The iPod 5G is an excellent music player, though still missing some important features. It has style and design that's unmatched, and works well with Apple's outstanding iTunes software. It is functional and works well for what it was designed for. Features are lacking, certainly lagging behind the competition, and you get locked in Apple's system, so that's a tradeoff you will have to weigh. I like my 5G iPod video edition, and plan to keep it at least until the next generation comes out", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "I like it...", "unixReviewTime": 1132531200, "reviewTime": "11 21, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A272P62Q6UEDQ0", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "David Rosado", "helpful": [12, 13], "reviewText": "First, let me say that I've owned 2 other mp3 players for on the go.  First was the Dell DJ, then the iAudio X5.  The Dell lacked in the sound quality department, while the X5 excelled, especially with all the options it has.  If you want to very much customize the way your music sounds, then stop reading.  If you don't care for said options and prefer to listen to your music naturally and would like to watch superb-quality video, then by all means, read on:This isn't to say that the ipod doesn't have ways to customize the way your music sounds either.  It has about 15 EQ presets, but unfortunately that's what they remain: presets.  Myself, I don't use the EQ at all anyway, and with a good pair of earphones (click to see all my reviews to see an incredible pair for this machine) you'll be in sound paradise.Itunes:  Perhaps the easiest way to manage your music as far as I'm concerned.  The program does everything FOR you, organizing your music collection on the ipod AND PC.  Simply great, I haven't seen any problems with it yet.Interface:  Very, very simple, user-friendly UI.  Most people have used or at least seen an ipod at this point, so I don't need to go into the nitty-gritty here.  Everything is organized by id3 tag, meaning by artist, album, genre, you name it.  The only difference between this UI and other ipods is of course, the \"videos\" menu located in the main menu.Video quality:  In a word, wow.  I've owned the iaudio X5 and the video on that was passable at best.  A tiny screen, 15 fps...it was lacking.  On the ipod however, you get twice as many frames on a much clearer, larger, and color-filled screen.  The animation is fluid, the sound quality in videos is superb, and no, watching videos and this particular relatively small screen does not hurt my eyes.  I've watched MANY a TV show on here and enjoyed it thoroughly.Build quality:  Ok, here's one of the caveats that I mentioned.  I'm going to be frank:  You need to BABY this thing.  It scratches like it's been attacked by about 8 cats.  9.  9 cats.  However, if you can pluck down the 300 dollars to buy this puppy, would it not make sense to throw another 20 or so down on a decent case?  Please do yourself a favor and buy a case, as you will notice fine scratches on the back within minutes (Yes, minutes) of using it if you use the standard leather case.  Some may argue that it's a bad marketing move on Apple's part to build something so easy to scratch and not include a decent protective case, and I couldn't argue with said some.Battery life: Second caveat.  Well, sort of.  If you're listening to music, as long as you don't constantly use the backlight, EQ, Sound Check, or skip songs, you'll get a good amount of battery life out of this thing.  I've never done an \"official\" measure of it, but I'd guess 12 hours at about 75% volume.  Video, however, saps the battery life like nothing else.  You might as well only leave 2 episodes of television of it at a time, or perhaps one movie, because that's all you're going to be able to watch before seeing a red battery icon.  I guess it's a sacrafice we make to embrace a thinner form factor.And finally style:  This will be my shortest paragraph.  This thing looks, dare I say, sexy.  Sexy sexy sexy.  It's thin, flat, looks incredibly sleek...I don't know what else to say here.Consider all before making your purchasing decision.  If you're not one to take good care of your investments, then it's probably a good idea you pass this up.  However, if you want to enjoy the perks of itunes, its music store, incredibly video and great sound quality, then by all means, get yourself this ipod!P.S.  If you need a charger, might I recommend you search Amazon for a third party model and save yourself 20 dollars off the apple model!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Fantastic little device--a couple of caveats", "unixReviewTime": 1140566400, "reviewTime": "02 22, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A10HMPPHWI3V0A", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "dddddsssss \"gggogogog\"", "helpful": [12, 18], "reviewText": "I have to say, this thing really impressed me. I had a lot of doubts and worries about it as I have strict guidelines for electronics, but those are all gone now.The Good:- Assuming you encode your movies correctly, video playback is awesome. The quality all depends on the movies you have. I have a lot of HDTV 24 episodes and they look just like they do on my computer monitor. IF YOU ENCODE INCORRECTLY THEY WILL NOT PERFORM WELL.- Sound is gorgeous. Even with those earbuds (which any real audiophile should replace anyway), the music sounds great. There are also about 25 presets in the EQ you can choose from like Electronic, Dance, Classical, and so on. Depending on the properties of your music, the Ipod can go pretty loud and still remain distortion-free. Again, this depends on YOUR music files and NOT the Ipod.- Screen. I think it could be a bit bigger, but it does the job well. Mine is scratch free as I left the protective film it ships with on and just put a silicone case over top of that. The plastic is a bit scratched up, but the screen underneath is fine. Common sense would tell anyone to leave that protective film ON the device and not to pick at it or it will come off.- Options. There are a lot of things that can be manipulated and changed. Menus, back-light, clicker, etc. There are also a few games like Music Quiz, where it plays a few seconds of one of your songs and you have to choose the right one out of 5 or so choices. And, there is a diagnostic menu to test the performance of your Ipod in all areas. Really cool.- Battery Life. I put this in the good since it performs as I would expect. Who is the moron that actually mentioned 75 hours of battery life? During video playback, the most you will get is 2.5 hours of battery life. Let me say that again for those who don't comprehend well. YOU GET 2.5 HOURS OF BATTERY LIFE DURING VIDEO PLAYBACK. The more you use the back-light while listening to music, the less battery life you will have. 75 hours applies to never touching the thing and just letting it go through your music. Even then, I doubt you will get 75 hours.Also, you MUST follow the instructions when first charging it. Portable batteries are VERY sensitive to charge cycles. If you don't charge it like you should, your battery is gonna suck. It is HIGHLY recommended that you DO NOT let the battery life decrease past half. There are a number of cycles for each battery and the objective is to avoid ever using an entire cycle.The Bad:- This is a hard drive based MP3 player so every so often it takes about a second longer to skip to the next track. If this bothers you, you need a Flash memory MP3 player.- Battery life again. Expectations aren't everything. The next model really needs an upgraded battery. Charging this thing constantly if you watch movies is a real pain. It could be so much better and I feel that Apple really cut corners with the battery.- Scratches. It does happen if you are stupid enough to walk around without a case. THE IPOD NEEDS A CASE. Any portable gadget needs a case. Technology has been around long enough for people to know this. There is no excuse.- Having to encode movies. Why can't Itunes do that? This was another bad choice for Apple unless they are catering to geeks only, which is fine by me. Seriously, if you are not that computer savy then this is not the video player for you. You need to have an understanding of audio/video compression to get the most out of this player.Apple doesn't even have a program to encode muxed files, which a lot of internet content are. I highly recommend everyone to 'acquire' Nero Digital from Nero 6. It is the best converter out there at the moment that negates any synch problems. ImToo and Videora are completely useless and make very poor files.- No wireless. Right now, wireless headphones for the Ipod Video are practically non-existent. Logitech seems to be trying to alleviate that, but their headphones are currently riddled with manufacturer defects and don't even support the Video. Let's move it along Apple. We need wireless.- Earbuds. For the first few months, they are fantastic. But, eventually they seem to adopt vibration problems and hearing a rattle in my right ear is REALLY annoying.All in all, it is the best MP3 player on the market right now. Period. There just isn't enough support for it from Apple or anyone else. Vehicles are just now coming Ipod ready and that is limited to certain models. Where is our support? Apple? Anyone?", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Good Ipod.", "unixReviewTime": 1146096000, "reviewTime": "04 27, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3KIG10QSTS321", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "Galal Hazzi \"Gello\"", "helpful": [17, 27], "reviewText": "i'am one of those who seek the best product in its category even if i have to pay more. The ZEN VISION M is one of those best products in the MP3 field. when i first decided to buy an mp3 player, first of all like everybody and without thinking and comparing i bought the ipod nano. i was looking for a small mp3 player with a descent storage and of course it must be good looking. After, having the nano for two months, i got so bored. the nano can't hold anything else except music and photos that must be seen on 1.5 inch screen therefore you will need a loop if you want to view your pictures. i sold the nano to one of my friends and i got the san disk sansa e260, excuse me san disk but that thing is suck. tha material from which that thing was made can't compete with other mp3 player in the market. the e260 gives you that very cheap look although it costs me 220 USD. i returned tha sansa back to best buy and i decided to spend a little bit more and get something with a video (fully equipped) and a big screen. i started comparing between the 2 most rivals in the market, the ipod video and the ZEN Vision M. finally, i decided to buy the VISION M for the reasons below:1-the vision M is equipped with an FM tuner with a perfect reception for 70% of the channels.2-the vision M is equipped with an FM recorder so you can record your favorite radio show, song or game and listen to it later.3-the vision M is equipped with an excellent voice recorder. i made a test for the voice recorder in Best Buy, i recorded my voice talking in the middle of a crowd and WOW i can still hear my voice clearly4-the 2.5 inch LCD(high definition)screen is very clear and sharp that you can see your pictures very vivid plus, you have a zoom in feature. so i don't need a loop anymore!5-the player is customizable. you can change the defalut backgrounds with any picture uploaded on your player. Plus, the player comes equipped with 6 different backgrounds and fonts.6-the Vision M is not scratches and fingerprints magnet like the ipods.7-the included software is very easy to use. i got used to itunes and when i used the software included i found it pretty much similar and i dealt with it like if i have been using it long time ago.8-the player comes with a wall charger!! thank you so much creative for giving the player's buyer his rights. the ipod video doesn't come with a wall charger, you have to buy it seperately for around 30 USD, ipods are charged with the included USB cable which is ridiculous because i remember one time i was in a hotel and i couldn't listen to my ipod because the thing ran out of battery and i had no access to computers.9-sound quality is pretty much the same, but the included speakers with the creative are prettier than the ipod.10-the accessories for the Vision M started to show up in stores, DLO company made till now 2 different cases for it. plus, many different cases that you can find online especially on Amazon.com.11-the Vision M has better battery life, lasts 1 - 1.5 hours more than the ipod video when playing videos and more hours when you play music12-The vision M has one of the best features that ever came in an mp3 player before..you can search for your song alphabetically. plus, you can click on the vertical touch pad and a keyboard will apears on which type the name of your song using the touch pad and the player will look it up for you whereever this song exists. Isn't that excellen?Conclusion: the vision M offers you all the Ipod Video features plus the list above. for the same price. you pay 300 USD for both!!!!the Vision M from my opinion worth every penny sipmly because if you want to buy some accessories for the Ipod video to make it with the same features equipped in the Vision M you will have to spend at least 120 USD over the initial 300 USD to add the fm tuner and the voice recorder and you will never have zoom feature or customizable player.Some Remarks:-they say that the itunes is one of the pros of the ipods, i don't know why, this software can be downloaded for free even if you don't have an ipod!!!-they say that the accessories is on of the pros of the ipods, i don't know who's going to buy all these cases and speakers offered in the market by everybody?-they say that the ipods are easier to use. Feel this one and try it anywhere and you will find very easy to use and even easier.i hope that my review can be helpful. thank you creative for making such an excellent product and saving the customers from this bad monopoly called iPods...Regarding the accessories i placed an order for an awesome silicone case from DLO.com and i received it yesterday.. the case fits my vision M perfectly and i got the case on time wih no hassles.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "IPod Killer - Zen Vision M Is Way Better", "unixReviewTime": 1150934400, "reviewTime": "06 22, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1SO1PGDNVMLXC", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "kalyson", "helpful": [63, 72], "reviewText": "We bought an ipod video 30gb and the creative touch (40 gb) (recently). Also purchased the muvo and the toshiba gigabeat. The gigabeat died within a few days. The muvo is great for a flash player. But the ipod has some real problems.The creative is better than the ipod for us because of file sharing and file backups. The ipod will attach to ONE COMPUTER ONLY and it KNOWS if you try to get it to work with another. This caused us a lot of grief when we switched computers. Then the new computer we attached it to died and getting the music back off of the ipod was a real pain. If you are able to even get the files back off the ipod (it doesn't like to go that direction, apparently) it still will lose a lot of the tag info in the music library. (Wanna type all that in by hand?) Plus, since Apple's music file format is proprietary, we can't share files from the ipod to other players. (Does not play well with others! :-)The creative players do not have any of these problems. They will work on ANY new computer and accept imports of a variety of file formats. You can make as many backups of your music library on as many hard drives on as many computers as you like.Another difference is the sound quality and volume output. Creative players drive headphones with higher impedances and also have superior sound. Also, creative players have EQ settings that actually work! They sound very different, but the ipod EQ settings pretty much all sound the same. Furthermore, the creative players have custom EQ settings available if you don't like the presets that come with the player.The ipod is more attractive and a bit smaller than the creative, but such things don't concern me since I'm looking for the highest quality sound I can get. Unfortunately, few mp3 players on the market today are really audiophile quality, and the ones that are are only available in Korea. Apparently the US market is more concerned with \"features\" and \"style\".There are a few problems with the creative software. It has some bugs but is easy to use. The ipod's software is also easy to use. Both interfaces are easy to use, but the creative touch can sometimes be too sensitive. It does have a sensitivity setting that helps a bit with that.Both the ipod and creative would be much better if they had a line out instead of just the regular headphone jack. I would be happier also if the creative could handle lossless compression formats, too, but this is not a major concern.What player a person buys really depends on their priorities. I have no need to watch videos on a portable player (Although creative has a video player, too). I'm looking for non-proprietary file formats and good sound quality. I've seen a lot of my friends with ipods suffer the consequences of having the single computer attachment problem and proprietary file format issues. That can be a very serious problem. I understand there are third party software programs out there that may help some of these issues, but it still is a very suboptimal situation to have to deal with.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Problems with ipod", "unixReviewTime": 1149465600, "reviewTime": "06 5, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1KJTBUUDD52I5", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "K. Orrson \"katwomansz\"", "helpful": [15, 18], "reviewText": "http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0002ZAIMI/ref=pd_ecc_rvi_7/103-7100148-9677456?%5Fencoding=UTF8To keep the price under $300 Apple deleted the AC adaptor that was included with previous iPODS.  You only get the USB charging cable. Remember too that not all USB ports have power on some computers.So if you ever want to travel or don't want to keep your iPOD charging on your desk all day or in an internet cafe, you need the AC adaptor that just plugs into the wall to charge.  There may be ones that work that aren't appple brand I'm not sure...but you need one, trust me.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Don't forget the AC adapter!!", "unixReviewTime": 1130544000, "reviewTime": "10 29, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1MXFJEGNZ107N", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "Lac \"lac\"", "helpful": [15, 25], "reviewText": "After using my Ipod for about 1 month I have to say it is far worse than it's counterparts. Most other MP3 players can be used as a hard drive as well. The Ipod cannot. I am very good with computers, but have had constant problems with the Ipod. It doesn't recognize songs names or album names of many CD's. You have to enter it by hand. Now imagine doing 15,000 songs by hand. It's absurd! In addition, after I spend 4 days copying the music it was erased when the ipod died and crashed my computer. I still gave it another chance. I tried copying all the music that I had backed up. Well, I have a brand new generation 2 Dell XPS with 2 gb of random access memory and it Apple tech services, which I have spent quite a bit of time with on the phone, told me all my problems were a result of my computer being too slow. This leads me to believe that since my top of the line computer is too slow to copy a large file load to the Ipod then no computer is fast enough. I have an Iriver IHP and I use it for MP3's that don't need to be converted and I use it like a hard drive, I use it to back things up, and I use it for a lot of other things. The Ipod doesn't match up to other multimedia products. It's not a good product.The only reason why people are buying the Ipod is because it is popular. I fell into the trap. It's not a good product unfortunately, but because all the secondary vendors are making products for it a lot of people are buying it. Don't bother buying it.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Awful Overrated Product", "unixReviewTime": 1161302400, "reviewTime": "10 20, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3NM0RAYSL6PA8", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "Maine Writer \"David\"", "helpful": [35, 48], "reviewText": "As with any piece of expensive, portable technology, this new iPod requires a hands-on test drive. You need to get a sense as to just how portable it really is, whether it's solid enough for the journey, and, in the case of the iPod with video, just how good the screen really is under various light conditions. I've only had a few moments to check it out, but I'll share my observations. (Having had my nano screen break under normal usage on the very first day I owned it, I brought to the table a real concern about fragility, by the way. Apple, thankfully, replaced the broken nano with a new one, as they have acknowledged an apparent defect with some of the screens.)First, as you would expect, form and fit are first rate. The iPod seems to get smoother and more seamless with each generation. As with the nano, I think the scroll wheel has hit the sweet spot, too.Second, it seems more substantial and durable than the nano. Part of that has to do with the astounding thinness of the nano. There seems to be quite a bit more screen protection inherent in this iPod/video's design (and it is, after, considerably thicker than the nano, but still thin -- the 60 GB version is as thin as the 4th generation's 20 GB model, and the 30 GB is 30% thinner than that).Third, the screen is great. Clear, bright, and easy to read at a range of viewing angles (not that the latter is all that important for most iPods, but video changes all that ...). I must say, however, that it pales in comparison to the Sony PSP's gorgeous widescreen as a platform for watching videos. (The PSP's larger screen is a wonder, both for games and movies. Apple has obviously decided -- at least for the iPod -- to sacrifice optimal screen size for portability. More on that in a second.)Fourth, the slightly sour note. Once you've held the nano, used it, it makes this iPod feel too wide and heavy. Wide to a point where it doesn't easily nestle in the hand. It's the screen, of course, that is responsible. This is where you'll need to pick one up, hold it, check it out. It may be awkward to put in an armband for sports, for example. I found it consmetically less attractive because of that width, but, of course, you'll need to be the judge. Videos look great on it, as do photographs and album art. It's a great platform for catching with Lost -- or Desperate Housewives. But video comes at a price, of course. (Perhaps Apple could have changed the orientation of the screen so as to keep the width in check. Maybe. I'd have preferred that, I think.)The iPod/video is a compromise platform where, as Steve Jobs put it, video is \"icing on the cake.\" It may be a bit too much icing for some, given the physical effects it had on design. For those folks, the nano is absolutely perfect, and rumor has it that the nano's capacity will get a jolt upward in the spring if the 2 GB or 4 GB models don't hold enough for your liking.Another very nice product from Apple.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great iPod ... but too big?", "unixReviewTime": 1129248000, "reviewTime": "10 14, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1EDLKKE78L3XY", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "Patrick \"Pat\"", "helpful": [11, 15], "reviewText": "I really dont understand Apple, my old iPod mini had a charger, and now Apple had the greatest idea to stop shipping iPods with it. So if you plan to use it on a trip, you have to carry along your laptop... or pay $30 for a charger, which is a steal.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great, but for $300, it should include a charger", "unixReviewTime": 1134259200, "reviewTime": "12 11, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1JUBRIZMO0RJV", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "Steve H \"books911\"", "helpful": [88, 117], "reviewText": "The iPod first appeared four years ago, and the features continue to grow, with each update.I have owned the iPod with video playback, for several days now, and I continue to be impressed. Its physical appearance, quality, craftsmanship, and the wide array of features are keeping me entertained!The iPod with video playback was introduced on October 13, 2005. However, one should not necessarily consider this player a video player, but a great iPod music player, with video capabilities as a fantastic bonus. Nevertheless, the iPod with video playback is the most capable and feature-rich iPod ever produced by Apple.Video Playback - The iPod plays back H264 and MPEG4 encoded video. The iPod's new display is larger than ever at 2.5 inches, giving it a resolution of 320x240. What video content can you play on your iPod? This area is limited, at least currently. You can buy music videos on iTunes at $1.99 per song, which will play beautifully on the iPod. Furthermore, Apple has made available select television shows, for download on iTunes. They cost $1.99 per episode, for titles including ABC's hits Lost and Desperate Housewives. You can also watch the episodes you purchase on your computer. If you want to put some of your own video, onto your iPod, you will need to use an application such as QuickTime Pro to convert the video to the specific requirements to play on the iPod. You can also find video podcasts, which will play on the new iPod. Even if you do not plan to view video on the new iPod, its primary purpose is to be used as the world's best music player. You can still benefit from the beautiful new display, for it will help you find your favorite music faster, and you can view the album art that accompanies your music.  I find myself looking forward to watching videos and video podcasts, on my new iPod!Size of new iPod - Does the picture of the new iPod make it appear larger to you? Well, it did to me. The iPod looked wider, in the photos I saw. However, it is not. The height and width of the iPod are identical to the previous generation iPod with click wheel. The only change in dimensions is the depth. The new iPod is actually thinner than what came before it! Yes, this 30 gig iPod is thinner than the previous 20 gig photo model by 30 percent. What does all this mean? The iPod continues get smaller, making it even easier to carry.Capacity - This 30 gig iPod has room, for a lot of entertainment. With storage, for up to 7,500 songs, 12,000 photos, or 75 hours of video. The great thing I love about my iPod is that my music, photos, and video only take up about 15 gigabytes. However, I use the additional space to backup data, from my computer. This is incredibly helpful, and could be a real saver, if something happened to your computer. See, the iPod functions as an external hard drive, so you can backup all sorts of data. The 60 gig version is available, for $100 more, so if you want to use it for lots of video, or you have an enormous music collection, you may want to consider that larger version, which also sports longer battery life.New Software Features - Apple has added features, to the new iPod besides video support. First, they have a clock feature, which quickly allows you to view the time, in up to four different time zones simultaneously. Furthermore, there is a stop watch, and a screen lock, which you can enable to keep people from snooping on your calendar and/or contacts.Battery - The battery life is one of the most important specifications that you, as an iPod user, are going to care about. This 30 gigabyte iPod sports a battery that will last up to 14 hours, when playing only music. Also note that repeatedly changing songs manually, and turning on the backlight will use up your battery considerably faster. Furthermore, the iPod's battery lasts a maximum of two hours, when playing back video. This version of the iPod no longer includes an adapter to charge the iPod, at an electrical outlet. You will have to buy that adapter separately, or always charge the iPod via USB 2.0. The charging works fine, from your computer's USB 2.0, but if you're traveling you might want the ability to charge, with the adapter. Also note that the iPod no longer supports syncing via firewire cable. You will have to use USB 2.0.Mac or PC? This iPod works beautifully with either a Mac or PC. The iPod syncs your contacts, video, and music via the iTunes software.Podcasting - The iPod continues to support podcasting. Podcasts are internet radio broadcasts, and there are thousands covering nearly every subject imaginable, and more are coming out every day. Podcasts are quickly becoming popular content on iPods around the world. Check them out, for this iPod supports Podcasts out of the box. There are also video podcasts, so with the new iPod, you will be able to watch video podcasts, on the iPod's display.Appearance - The iPod is beautiful, but the back's chrome finish is prone to scratches, and the screen can become scratched as well. It is a very good idea to protect the back of the iPod and the screen in some way. There are many cases and protectors out there, and you will surely find something you like. The new iPod is available in a black or white finish. The black color is quickly becoming the most popular, but the white iPod is still the signature color. Do note that the black may show fingerprints and scratches more than the white iPod, much as a black car shows these blemishes more than a lighter colored car.Audiobooks - I'm always using my iPod, to listen to audiobooks. You can store literally hundreds of audiobooks on here that you buy from iTunes, or Audible. The iPod even has a feature that can slow down or speed up the reading of the audiobook, so that you hear it at just the right pace.Output - The iPod connects to your PC or Mac via the dock connector at the bottom of the unit. You will connect the included cable, to the computer via a USB 2.0 port. Furthermore, accessories are being made that will also connect to the bottom dock port, and you may purchase Apple's Universal iPod dock, for easy syncing to your computer. The dock (available separately) also includes s-video output, so you can show off slideshows and video, on a television. There are also iPod A/V cables available that allow composite video and audio output, for connecting your iPod to your television. This might interest you, not only to display slideshows on a television, but also to display TV shows or music videos on a television, which you purchased from iTunes.Overall, this is another excellent product from Apple Computer. The design is elegant, simple, and intuitive. It will provide hours of entertainment and convenience. Enjoy your iPod experience.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great music player, but with video too!!", "unixReviewTime": 1129248000, "reviewTime": "10 14, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A19QHWYQTPLYL3", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "Ted Shafer", "helpful": [14, 17], "reviewText": "This is my first iPod and I mostly love it.  Great form factor, beautiful screen, amazing click wheel that does exactly what you want it to, huge disc space, etc, etc, etc - all the good things you've read about.The I-Tunes software on my PC flawlessly imported my picture and music collection, no prompts required.  Thousand of pictures were shrunken and converted all automatically, one big batch, no problems.  Same with music.  Exporting them to the iPod: also a breeze, no prompts required to automatically get all that content into the iPod.But my videos were another matter entirely.  I was able to download videos from the Apple store, and play them on my PC and Ipod, with no trouble.  But the process of converting my home video clips (taken with digital camera) from QuickTime format (isn't that Apple already?) into the exact flavor of Mpeg-4 that the iPod requires is truly painstaking.  Literally hours of excruciatingly slow processing are required to convert each short home video clip from Apple's own QuickTime format into iPod friendly format, one at a time.  My Palm pilot with a 3rd party add-on plays those Apple Quicktime files just fine, no conversion required - why can't my Apple iPod?  It seems bizarre that Apple's hardware is so incompatible with its software.  Ideally all my Quicktime movies would be sucked up automatically in one big batch by I-Tunes and exported just as easily, as-is, to the iPod.  At the very least you'd expect a \"Batch Processing\" option, so that the user does not have to manually oversee the conversion of every single movie.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great iPod but really painful to import even short home Quicktime movies", "unixReviewTime": 1130976000, "reviewTime": "11 3, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AC4OVOLC9P2FJ", "asin": "B000A3WS84", "reviewerName": "Tristan C.", "helpful": [11, 19], "reviewText": "The reason I gave this item 1 star is because if you buy an ipod you have no choice but to buy a $30 case with it.For a product selling at this rate, it is ludicrous for it to not include a GOOD (that works!) case or pouch to protect the item from damage. Let's face it, ipods are great, but they are very fragile.When you click \"add to cart\" remember that it is going to be at least $30 more than the price says, unless you want a screen you can't see through due to scratches (which of course the warranty doesn't cover). And I'm talking from light use, e.g. in a sweatshirt pocket.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Time for a rant", "unixReviewTime": 1141084800, "reviewTime": "02 28, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1HSYRJHWH8VHH", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "Barbara A. Blackburn \"JollyRB\"", "helpful": [85, 86], "reviewText": "What in the world are the people giving one star ratings reviewing?Surely they don't have the same GPS I recieved a few days ago.  I'm sure they think their complaints are valid -- I just don't see it.I've been using m[ine for four days and love. RIght out of the box and on my dash in forty minutes. Would have been even quicker but I took time t read the reviews and update the firmware to the latest version as well as the new voice (JILL) from Garmin's site.  Perhaps that's what made the difference.No freezes. No unexpected reboots. Been smooth sailing all the way.A few things that weren't documented.The GPS can be tiled forward and backward as well as rotated on it's mount.  I was a bit concerned when I first put the unit on my dash because my dash angles back. I was afraid I would be able to get a good angle in sunlight to see the screen. Garmin's mount design is brilliant but I discoverd the tilt feature quite by accident when I grapsed the unit to push down on the self-adhesive gasket.I live near Chicago -- very congested area constantly changing. I was pleasantly surprised the mapset has a lot of recent developments.One thing I thought I would hate is the speaker on the power cable. But it angles back to lie flush with the dash and I LOVE the sound. My old TOM TOM could barely be heard over road noise once I got over 55 mph.  The GARMIN speaker is high quality and the female voice isn't drowned out. Very responsive as far as routing and prompting turns. Much faster than my old GPS 60CS in fact.I have a route to a local beach on Lake Michigan which features a series of rapid turns in succession. The 2720 keeps up with amazing speed. And if I miss a turn it seems to detect it much quicker than my 60CS and reroutes almost immediately.I couldn't be more pleased with this purchase. I toyed with the idea of getting the 2730 but XM Radio/XM Traffic just wasn't something I was interested in at this point in time.I highly recommend this device.If you buy it UPDATE the firmware immediately and update the voice. The new firmware features a new interface/map layout than what's shown in the promo pics on Amazon and Garmin. The Turn Arrow icon has been moved of the sidebar and now overlays the map. And the Direction Text is no longer across the top in a greenbar but on the sidebar in a box. Much more pleasing to the eye in my opinon.It's also a much more stable device than it apparently was several months ago. WHich is typical of GPS units. THe bugs get worked out slowly in a series of firmware updates.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "AWESOME PRODUCT!!", "unixReviewTime": 1134000000, "reviewTime": "12 8, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1O2KST0G3G7FJ", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "B. Wong", "helpful": [20, 20], "reviewText": "I generally write tough reviews.  So 4 stars coming from me is actually alot.  To keep it short, anything below the 2720 is not enough.  Anything above the 2720 maybe an overkill.Pros----------1.) Extremely tough, I have dropped this thing on hardwood floor and cement at least 5+ times from desk level.2.) The factory touchscreen has outstanding sensitivity for dragging with your fingers.3.) The remote is a real plus for cars that have a deep dashboard.  Excellent button placements.4.) If power is lost, on reset it comes up on the exact same screen you were in before.5.) It has not overheated once yet.  And I have left this thing to bake in the sun with my car windows rolled up.Cons----------1.) The sandbag station will slide off if you car dashboard is too tilted.2.) If you're driving fast, and slam on the break.  The sandbag station will not hold and the GPS will fly right off.3.) The unit is too thick.4.) The power cable can come lose with a light kick etc.5.) No batteries allowed.  If the person in the passenger seat kick the power cable by accident, your unit have no standby power.  It just goes off.6.) Poor reception in major high rise building areas.  But to be fair you can say this about most GPS.7.) To go from GPS mode to indoor non-GPS mode, it requires you to change the option in the menu manually. Or you can a long time until it lost satellite contact.8.) Route recalc message covers the entire screen.  Let's hope you don't have to recalc for too long or you'll be without a map.9.) The power adapter is way too big for most small car cigarette lighter.  You may need to purchase a separate 3-way splitter.10.)Considering I have the end-of-2005 updates, too many of the stores and restaurants etc are far too outdated.  This seems to be the same for just about every state I have crossed.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Close to Perfection", "unixReviewTime": 1153785600, "reviewTime": "07 25, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A21UUO3LE3SDGD", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "CWC", "helpful": [18, 19], "reviewText": "I am a real estate appraiser by profession and bought my first GPS system, the StreetPilot 2610, 2-1/2 years ago. I had reached the age where the cones in my eyes were disappearing faster than an Artic glacier. (heheh) Reading my street map books, even with a magnifying glass besides the the time trying to determine plotting routes to snap my comparable photos everyday, was becoming more frustating and time consuming. I couldn't even begin to tell you the time my 2610 has saved me. I plug in all my addresses for my assignments the night before and it has made my driving schedule a lot easier and pleasureable- even in Los Angeles traffic.As with others, I have found the Garmin support staff to be lacking in response and solutions. I have been unable to reach anyone on the 800 lime. The only response I appear to receive is by a 3-4 day e-mail. My 2610 system is loaded with City Navigator 5, which works fine in older established neighborhood areas. As my coverage area for appraisals has expanded this year and involves newer neighborhood tracts, my 2610's data has shown its age. The newer street names and/or neighborhoods aree not available to me. After a couple of attempts the past three months, I have been unable to order and/or receive the updated CN 7 disc for my 2610 StreetPilot. Very frustrating!I finally gave up in frustration a couple of weeks ago and purchased a 2720. There are some things about each StreetPilot I like better.Navigation: the 2720 is faster than the 2610. It notifies and modifies my route more quickly if I get off track, especially with WAAS on. I like having the voice announce the upcoming street names, but it wasn't a chore or distraction to quickly glance at the street name on the 2610's screen. The 2610's screen gives more street names than the 2720, which is important to me when trying to familarizing myself with neighborhoods. The 2610's screen is a bit more simpified, but highlights your \"from-to\" route and the arrow seems to following more consistently and smoother that the 2720's cursor. My 2610 prompted my at approximately one mile, approximately 1/2 mile, and again at 400'-200' feet, which was a nice option. My 2720 only informs at one mile, 1/2 mile, and when you get right to the street. I like the additional 200'-400' feet warning on my 2610. Having the entire U.S. coverage pre-loaded on my 2720 is a major plus instead of having several memory cards for various sections of the country I travel to with my 2610.Screen: I'm still trying to get used to the 3D screen on the 2720. I'm finding it distracting and doesn't give me an overview of the progression my route. The large white destination arrow actually blocks the map, which makes looking for and comprehending my destination route/point harder to view on screen. While it's a nice added feature, I'm using the 2D screen on my 2720 more than the 3D option.Volume: 2720's voices are softer and not as loud as my 2610's voice. If I turn the volume up on the 2720, the voices distort. Sometimes I feel my 2610's voice was too loud, but I could always hear it over the radio. I'm not finding that to be the case with the 2720.Setup: the 2720's screen is more responsive to imput with my fingers than the 2610. The setup screen is easier having both letter and numbers on one page than having to flip pages for numbers and letters on the 2610. It is easier to save and store routes and jump between modes on the 2720 than my 2610.At this point I heve decided to use both my 2610 and 2720 despending on my assignment area. Each seems to have advantages/disadvantages that I like/dislike. I'll update everyone at a future point as to how well this method is working and/or if I'm ever able to receive an updated City Navigaotor 7 for my 2610 from Garmin. I'm also curious to find out if each model plots a same route. As the 2610 has come down significantly in price from a couple of years ago, I think most people would find it will satisfy their needs- if it comes with City Navigator 7.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Sometimes I feel 26 and other times 27", "unixReviewTime": 1151107200, "reviewTime": "06 24, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AU6YRV8OXG9QH", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "Donald H. Moore \"DonM\"", "helpful": [30, 30], "reviewText": "The problem with being an early-adopter with technology is that you have to suffer through some growing pains. Now that the 2720 is out of that stage, it is a very nice and powerful unit.I've owned 5 different hand-held GPS units, and 3 automobile ones. So I've had exposure to different brands and interfaces.I really like the interface on the 2720, it is very easy to understand. Which is a good thing since the manual is seriously lacking in information.If you decide to get this unit, I would suggest 3 things:1 - Turn on WAAS. It will improve the accuracy when a WAAS station is available.2 - Go to the Garmin site and download the latest patches (currently version 2.90). This will eliminate the satellite lock issues, and correct some other small bugs.3 - E-mail Garmin and ask them to send you the Navigator DVD. It doesn't come in the box, but you get if free if you ask them. It allows you to plan routes and upload waypoints using your computer.I am very happy with this unit.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Get the updates and you will be fine", "unixReviewTime": 1129939200, "reviewTime": "10 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A375NF45A1MDWI", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "E.S \"phantom_horse\"", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "I bought this whilst in California and found it useful when going on trips to Yosemite etc.  You just plug in and go. (You almost don't need to ever read the instructions it is so easy.) I was the main driver and it meant no more arguments of the best way to go or shouting because turns had been missed.  Then I moved to Washington D.C with my family and the Garmin StreetPilot 2720 became the valuable piece of equipment.  Where ever we were trying to go it got us there.  I loved the fact you can just type in a shop name like Target and it will give you options of all the nearest ones.  There is no more staring blindly at maps trying to figure out where you are and how to get back.  I can truly say that I will never life without a navigation system.  It is worth its weight in gold just for the now stress free trips to whether we feel like.Garmin StreetPilot 2720 is great for its voice commands and color screen.  I love the fact it switches into night mode all by itself.  You can alter the angle of the screen best suited to your driving height and also to reduce the sun on the screen.  You have several voices to pick from.  The point of interest feature is extremely useful especially if you are like me and move to a new city.  As of yet I have not looked into it more advanced features and I haven't really bothered to look in the instructions.  The screens give you plan instructions.  I also love the screen size as it means you can look at the screen and get a really good idea of the road ahead and areas and towns that are around you.  Also you can easily put it in any car because of the soft grip bottom. I would recommend this to everyone wanting a navigation system.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I can't live without it.", "unixReviewTime": 1159574400, "reviewTime": "09 30, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AV6VLLML7542L", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "It's all about me", "helpful": [17, 17], "reviewText": "Since the 2720 has been out for of couple of years now, they are easily found at great prices.  This is the second Garmin automotive GPS I have owned, and I am continually impressed with Garmin's product quality, service, and easily installed product updates. I did quite a bit of comparison shopping prior to purchasing the 2720, but my mind was made up when I decided that a GPS was a GPS, not an mp3 player, cell phone, or slideshow device.  All the big manufacturers, Garmin included, are packing way too much technology into the newer versions.  The 2720 is a full featured GPS.  It has all the bells and whistles required, and not too much extra \"marketing fluff\".The only thing that I wish this had was battery operation, even if only for a short time.  I'd love to be able to plug this into my computer without having to find an A/C outlet for power.  Then again, it was made for the car, and with all the preloaded maps, it gives you 99% of what anyone could ask for in a GPS.I recommend this device to anyone looking for a quality device from a reputable manufacturer.  Garmin is the leader of the pack when it comes to the automotive market.  No one comes close!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent Automtive GPS, great investment for under $400", "unixReviewTime": 1176249600, "reviewTime": "04 11, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1D90BN3T62G66", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "JB", "helpful": [20, 21], "reviewText": "I really like this unit, it works very well, holds the antenna signal very well, I don't even use an external antenna and it works fabulously. Only complaint is it's not quite as customizeable as I'd like and the POI's are a little lacking in some areas. Also, when you search for things to do, it gives you too narrow of a list, the reason I say this is, if you are searching for food in an area, if you are in a city then within .1 miles there will be 50 places and then you're out of luck and have to select a different part of the city to search when it should just give you everything it has and let you decide how many places to search for. Other than that you can't say a bad word about this unit. I would have given it 5 stars, but there is some room for improvement so it can't have a perfect score, sorry garmin.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great unit, very minor flaws", "unixReviewTime": 1131494400, "reviewTime": "11 9, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AGKXP186I8JIA", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "J. Hubbard", "helpful": [26, 26], "reviewText": "I purchased a Tomtom Go 300 earlier today and had it lead me home.  It tried to take me on a \"shorter\" path home but by avoiding I-5 it added 15 minutes to the trip.  20 seconds after starting my journey it asked me to turn left on to a non-existant street.  There was no street anywhere near here either so it wasn't a case of just being off a little.  I drove straight and finally ran into a road it recognized and it got me home from there.  Overall I was unhappy with the lack of accuracy and choice to avoid the freeway when I was looking for the fastest route.I returned it an hour later and bought the Garmin 2720.  Not only did it take me right back on the freeway and get me home in a hurry I decided to use it to find my girlfriends house.  She happens to live in an extremely difficult area to get to.  Her address starts with 010 and if you use Mapquest it forces you to truncate the leading 0 which puts you on the right street but on the wrong side of a major parkway which is very time consuming to get around.  It gave me the perfect route to get to her taking the exact set of turns INCLUDING a quick right then left that had me get back onto the same street I was on but turning left to cross it and head the opposite direction - the only possible way to reach her.  I was ecstatic it didn't try to lead me downtown to make some convoluted turn around.  It used my own exact set of turns.When it indicates your current speed I've found this accurate to less than 1mph of what my speedometer indicates.  This makes the estimated time of arrival indicator very accurate.The POI's are robust and being new to the area I enjoy being able to search for things like restaurants by cuisine and when looking up movie theaters it gives a phone number so I can check the listings on the go.I found the software on the unit was a little dated however Garmin had a web updater I downloaded that brought me up to the current version with no prompts except a license agreement.  The windows software is easy to plot waypoints & routes from home and upload via the USB cable.It comes with a heavy fabric paperweight I guess you'd call it with a rubberized bottom for setting it on the dash.  This made me nervous at first but it actually weighs a couple pounds and is a tacky rubber that should keep it in place during anything but an accident or a U-turn that qualifies as a felony.All in all I'm very happy with the unit and returning the Tomtom was a good move for me.  This thing isn't cheap but Amazon has a great price on it as usual.Update January 12, 2008.  Last month the unit began \"restarting\" over and over.  It would turn on and run for 5-30 seconds then restart like it was unplugged and plugged back in.  I had an extended warranty and Garmin ended up swapping it for a new one.  Took about 6 weeks.  I'm disappointed it failed but am still very happy with the performance.  A year or so ago I took a trip to Disneyland and when returning home I was looking for a hotel in Northern California.  Three were full so I asked what's up.  Due to fires, most rooms were booked for the fire crews.  I did a search for hotels on the Garmin and it includes phone numbers for most.  I was able to call around (took a lot of tries) but finally found a room.  One or two numbers had been disconnected but overall it was a great help.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "More accurate than mapquest", "unixReviewTime": 1138838400, "reviewTime": "02 2, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2LOCNLCDMUKS0", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "Joe from LA", "helpful": [34, 34], "reviewText": "I can't compare this GPS device to any other since it is the first that I have used.  Even a prude who uses it will say \"damn\".  This unit is amazing.  The touch screen provides a constantly changing map--a blue arrow indicating where you are and are headed, major points of reference (a park, cementery), your speed, and the time that will take you to arrive at your destination.  I live in the middle of a development and to get to my home from a main street, one has to make 5 quick turns. The 2720 got them all, announcing the direction of the turn and the name of the street in each case.  In going to a nearby store, the device had three choices: two parellel streets (the farthest being the one with the destination address), and a freeway in the middle, but whose on-ramp was some 2 miles away.  Correctly, it had me take the first left and go to the freeway.  On the return trip, I made a u-turn into a fast-food restaurant.  Twice the device had to re-calculate, which it did.  It got me back on track and home.  I haven't tried the other features (restuarants, etc.), but so far I am extremely impressed.  While I haven't had the 2720 long enough to discover problems, if there are any, based on my experiments today, this one is a real winner.UPDATE:I am still enthusiastic about this device, but pray that you don't have to contact Tech Support.  The 800 number is always busy (tried four times over a 3-day period).  I have called four times on my own dime, and despite waits of up to 30 minutes, have still not been able to talk to anyone except the operator who answers.  The last time, I was urged to leave a message for the person in charge of customer service, and assured that she would be interested in hearing about my frustration and would return my call.  That was two days ago.  No call yet.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Update", "unixReviewTime": 1135209600, "reviewTime": "12 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1UPVEV5UV2KEU", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "John R.", "helpful": [15, 18], "reviewText": "Generally, the unit itself works well and is reasonably intuitive to use.  I have the traffic unit and it was easy to integrate.If the Navteq maps for my area were not so bad, I would give this unit 4 or 5 stars.  However, the maps for my area (San Diego) are dated and, more importantly, of poor quality.  For example, new developments for which the streets have been in the Thomas Guide for two years are missing from the maps in this unit.  The unit also frequently gives bad directions because of poor quality maps that do not properly distinguish side streets from collectors and arterial streets.  For example, major east/west arterial streets in downtown San Diego that have synchronized traffic lights are not distinguished from side streets that have stop signs every 50 yards.  Multilane suburban collector streets are frequently not distinguished from single lane side streets.  The poor directions in areas I know lead me to not trust the unit elsewhere.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Garmin Unit is Good, but NavTeq maps suck", "unixReviewTime": 1149638400, "reviewTime": "06 7, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1WIAWNSEK9BVS", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "J. R. Aggers", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "We received our StreetPilot about a week before we headed out on vacation in the California mountains so we didn't get much chance to practice using it.  I found it easy to use and it worked great even up in the mountains.  Sometimes in the mountains it took a little longer to triangulate our position but it always found our position.  Its directions were accurate and easy to follow.  If you have a specific address to go to it works great.  I found it a little cumbersome if you are planning a siteseeing trip with multiple stops which are general areas and not specific addresses.Overall we are very pleased with it and will never take a vacation without it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Garmin StreetPilot 2720", "unixReviewTime": 1163894400, "reviewTime": "11 19, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A5KUVR7CG4V5V", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "Lawrence Tuczynski \"godzillamusic\"", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "After about a year of research on various GPS units, I bought the Garmin StreetPilot 2720. I used it around town for a few weeks just to get the feel of it and see how accurrate it was. This past weekend I used it for a 400 mile trip to visit an old friend. It worked great and even plotted a faster, better course than I would have taken and saved me a few $$ on tolls as well. Where it really came in handy was on the trip home where some accidents caused detours. This unit had me back on my route again in no time.Plusses:1. Easy to learn and use.2. Very accurate. Even the estimated time of arrival has been within a minute or two.3. The voice actually saying the name of the road instead of just turn left or turn right.4. Fast recalculations if you take a wrong turn.Minuses:1. If there is a N, S, E, or W in a route NAME, it assumes North, South, East or West. I was on Route 9W which is the name of the route and it told me 9 West.2. Some items in the database are not completely accurrate. When I was going to my hotel that was very close to an intersection of two main roads, it told me to turn Left when the hotel was clearly on the Right. Also when I go HOME and turn into my street, it says my house is on the Left when it's actually on the Right. Fortunately these type mistakes don't happen often and if you do make a wrong turn it recalculates quickly.3. When recalculating because you took a wrong turn or different route, the female voice sounds like it's annoyed when it says \"Recalculating\". :-)Overall this is a great gadget. Do your shopping homework for the best price. I have seen as much as a $300 difference in price depending on who is selling the unit.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Garmin StreetPilot 2720", "unixReviewTime": 1129075200, "reviewTime": "10 12, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1VYJGD19NUQJM", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "McQ \"McQ\"", "helpful": [15, 15], "reviewText": "I've owned the 2720 for about 6 months.  Used for one cross country trip and lots of local navigation.  Basically it's just fantastic.  I take it whenever going to a new location.  I occasionally override it's route but not often - and that's easy to do when needed.It doesn't always pick the fastest route even though I request that.  This happens when a high speed limit road has lots of stop lights compared to a slower or longer route with no stop lights.  I don't downgrade it much for that - it's never failed to get me there.  I don't think any other navigation aid would have maps with lights and programming to know how much time that would add.It has found new routes to places I've gone to frequently that were better than what I'd chosen using MapQuest or poring over a printed map.  And, I'm pretty handy with maps.  That really impresses me.  That offsets the occasional routes over roads with stop lights.I was very reluctant to get one initially.  Now that I've had it for awhile I can't imagine not having one.  Perhaps other models would be OK, but, certainly this 2720 is fantastic.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I can't believe I waited this long", "unixReviewTime": 1138752000, "reviewTime": "02 1, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2T135XHAH82S4", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "Melfi", "helpful": [68, 68], "reviewText": "We did a lot of research before purchasing the StreetPilot 2720.  We travel on road trips a great deal and have been looking forward to having a tool that would make the trips more enjoyable.  Relying on MapQwest, maps or an atlas is sometimes less than reliable.  Based on reviews, we thought the StreetPilot 2720 was the best model available for the price.Two days after it arrived we took a trip from Omaha, NE to Chicago, IL for a wedding.  This trip also involved a lot of driving in and around Chicago for the prenuptial dinner, wedding and reception.  The StreetPilot 2720 never once let us down.We are very impressed with the StreetPilot 2720 and believe it was worth every dime we paid for it (much less on Amazon than at local stores or other online sites).We will list the Pros and Cons that we have discovered (Cons first).CONSOccasionally the computer-voice will mangle the name of a street or exit.  For example sometimes \"50th\" will sound like \"15th\".Once outside of Council Bluffs, IA on the way home we lost the satellite signal going through some hills at about 2 AM.  This was the only time we had to `reboot' the machine and it acquired a new satellite signal immediately.  Other times when the satellite signal was lost included driving into a garage or under a car port (duh).PROS* The STREET NAME is provided by the computer voice and the screen.  This is EXTREMELY helpful when driving through an unfamiliar city.* The street pilot is able to locate the nearest gas station while driving on the interstate.* The street pilot also will tell you the actual street name  to turn on and not just \"turn left in 500 feet.\"* The Garmin can detect all restaurants in the vicinity.* Screen color adjusts to day or night time conditions automatically* Satellite view allows you to view signal strength from the satellites tracking you (this is really cool but not necessarily functional)* Remote control allows for easy input of data without having to touch or smear the screen* Programming allow you to specify avoidance of toll roads in your route (particularly helpful in the trip to Chicago)* Bean Bag base is quite SOLID, flat, heavy, balanced and possesses a slip-resistant base (other reviews commented that the Bean Bag was unstable---we do not think this is the case and were actually expecting the worst before we received the StreetPilot)* Recalculates if off course very quickly.* Capable of detecting virtually any deviation off course...we were only a few yards from the main road---on a parallel access road---and it recognized this and calibrated to get us back on the main road.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "StreetPilot 2720 Rules the Road", "unixReviewTime": 1131580800, "reviewTime": "11 10, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2KF3H5304I4IA", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "Michael A. Israel", "helpful": [30, 36], "reviewText": "I recently purchased the 2720 when my Magellan Rodadmate 700 went on the fritz.  (Turns out it was not really broken afterall, I had just stored it with something on top of the screen and it needed a day to recover).  After a week of comparing the two, I returned the 2720.I am generally a big fan of Garmin products.  Their handhelds and aviation units are world class.  The main reason I bought the 700 two years ago was that at the time it was the only unit with a built in HDD.  I was surprisingly pleased with it but now thought I would give the latest Garmin StreetPilot a shot.  I find it to be a good unit with some innovative features such as the real time traffic update option.  Still, it has some surprising shortcomings in the software realm.Lets start with the screen.  The good news is that the resolution and readability in all conditions is outstanding.  Definitely best in class.  COmpletely visible in sunlight while the night mode is nice and easy on the eyes.  The bad news is that it is physically a bit smaller than the Magellan.  This would not be a big deal were it not for the fact that 1/4 of that smaller screen is taken up by a speed indicator and estimated time of arrival on the right side.  This results in a map view that is MUCH smaller than that of the Roadmate.  Look at the screenshots of the two units, you will see that the Rodamate displays its information using a semi-transparent overlay at top or bottom of the screen and then switches to a split screen as you approach a turn.  Why Garmin wastes aquarter of the screen space is beyond me.  Maybe if they had a BIG screen like the Lowrance units but they do not.  This leads me to the next point, configurability.One of the strenghts of older Garmin units was that you could configure them in many different ways to your liking.  This is not really the case with the StreetPilot.  For example, on that right side of the screen it displays vehicle speed.  Unless my speedometer is broken this is useless information and I would prefer to replace it with something like distance to destination.  No such flexibility exists.  FYI, the Magellan displays BOTH estimated time to destination and distance simultaneously.I will say that the spoken street names work well.  Pronunciation is good, and prompts usually make sense.  The Magellan 700 does not offer this and just tells you things like, \"Right turn in .2 miles\".  The choice of routes and quality of maps is essentially equal.  The 2720 does show more detail on the maps.  Generally you will get routes that make sense although both units will sometimes send you on a less than optimal or logical course.  In most cases they will bothget you there.The Magellan wins over the 2720 is in terms of the navigation menus itself.  For example, the 2720 gives you a choice of fastest time or shortest time.  Magellan offers these as well as \"Least Use of Highways\", \"Most Use of Highways\".  You can configure the 2720 with similar preferences but you need to navigate through many menus to change these, and can not easily do so on a per trip basis.  Even with the existing choices, on the Magellan I can select a destination with say \"Fastest Time\".  If I do not like that route I hit \"Back\" and then canpick \"shortest distance\", two clicks total.  On the 2720 I must go all the way back to reselecting my destination, then routing choice, a process of navigating multiple menus.  On both units I can quickly switch screens from map to route listing (you will need to updgrade to the latest version of software on the Garmin to do this).  But even here, the Garmin initially shows me ony the next 2-3 upcoming turns, I have to push another button to see the complete list, an extra and unnecessary step.  The only interface plus for the Garmin is the inclusion of the remote.As mentioned, The 2720 is innovative in including the ability to add on real time traffic.  This does requires purchase of an additional $200 module and a subscription fee after the first 15 months.  It is a nice feature which Magellan should offer and which Garmin should build into the unit itself..  Do note that service only covers major roads in certain areas so value may vary.You will not be unhappy with the Garmin, I just happen to believe that the Roadmate is a better choice in terms of both simplicity out of the box and advanced features and configuration when you need them.  As the top of the line unit,  it really needs to offer much more than their less pricey units.  It almost seems that Garmin decided to save money by using a common interface software on all their units.  That is OK for someone who owns multiple Garmins.  However, the buyer of their premium unit expects lots of bells, whistles, and configuration options not found on the lesser units.  If you want a Garmin, you can get most of the features of the 2720 on their other models for less money.In my case I have returned the 2720.  It is good but underwhelming.  It just does not seem to offer enough over my 2 year old Magellan 700 let alone the newer 760 and 800 series.  This conclusion having been reached after using them side by side for the past week.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Took it Back.  Happier with Magellan Roadmate 700", "unixReviewTime": 1130371200, "reviewTime": "10 27, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A33GVKZI9SCGMM", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "MikeRadio \"mikeradio\"", "helpful": [22, 27], "reviewText": "This is a great unit, and my 3rd Garmin.My advice... pass up those bluetooth and MP3 features that some of the \"other\" GPSs offer.If you want to hear mp3s on the road, bring your ipod with a dock and if ytou nee dbluetooth pick up a good bluetooth speaker device.Those other brands have bad directions, washedout screens, and every annoyance you can think of.Garmin has been doing GPS and doing it right for years.One of the complaints I have had in the past, not for me as much as in general, is that setup and interface was just too damn complicated.They put out the other line of \"simple\" GPS units which are TOO simple.This lets you have all the advanced features, but it is set up in an easy 2 step menu so anyone can use it.I love this unit and it is accurate and works great.However, I could not give it 5 stars because the beanbag mount which people complain is not sturdy ISN'T as sturday as it used to be.  I have an old one, and this has bendable metal inserts in the beanbag 4 legs which makes it so it will NOT move off the dash (however the TSA can't see through this metal and if this is in my carry on, it always invites a hand search).I wish they would have gone back to that.... instead of skimping here.  Also the carry case which is optional is cheesier than the previous one.  Not different, just not as good material.  Again cost cutting but quality cutting as well.The last thing is that this GPS is loaded with everything, so no need for Mapping programs like Mapsource.  However it IS COMPATIBLE with Mapsource whih makes it EASTER to share data and save data.  BUT Mapsource City Navigator is NOT INCLUDED.  Even though there is no reason to select areas and load maps like before, this program is a tool and should still be included.Hope you enjoy.. Great job again Garmin!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Garmin Ready FOr Primetime - Don't Mess With Others", "unixReviewTime": 1126915200, "reviewTime": "09 17, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3AJ0QI3CIJ1WL", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "R. Janardhanan", "helpful": [10, 12], "reviewText": "I purchsed this one after reading the good reviews in Amazon. This is the first GPS I have had..So do not have anything else to compare with. Also I have had this only for 2 weeks. So my experience and expertise is limited.I must say that I have had no problem setting it up, downloaded the patches, and the satellite was able to locate easily. I have travelled locally in the suburbs of Boston without problems.I have read some of the other expert reviews here, clearly suggesting that there are bugs and potential problems with the unit, which has not become obvious to me yet. From the reviews, I gather the system is not perfect yet.But my personal experience in these 2 weeks is definitely 5 stars!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I have had no major problems yet!", "unixReviewTime": 1129939200, "reviewTime": "10 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3FXLR169N57L", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "Roy E. Young", "helpful": [16, 16], "reviewText": "I loved the ease of using this device. When I first took it out for a test drive I delibertaley ignored directions to see how the recalculating route function worked and it performed flawlessly!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "AWESOME", "unixReviewTime": 1146528000, "reviewTime": "05 2, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2PD07NCY2EQKS", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "R. Reece", "helpful": [381, 389], "reviewText": "I have been playing around with GPS for 5 years.  Until I got this Garmin 2720, it's all just been a waste of money.The 2720 is a great practical tool.  I travel all the time, and finally, I've been liberated from MapQuest, Yahoo Maps and Microsoft Streets & Maps.  This is a practical tool that really works.My last purchase was a Belkin Bluetooth GPS receiver to connect too my iPaq.  A total waste of money, as were my previous GPS toys.The 2720 is the first GPS product I've bought that really makes sense.  It's simple, and easy to use, and it's ready to go right out of the box.The screen is readable in all lighting conditions, and the 3D view is easy to read at a glance.  The text-to-speech feature really makes it.  You really don't have to look at the screen that often.  It speaks the names of the streets and tells you where to turn exactly how to get to your destination.You'll want to enable WAAS right away (It's disabled initially in the default settings) because it keeps the system from spontaneously recalculating your route and taking you on wild goose chases. After enabling WAAS, it has been very accurate.The user interface is very intuitive and easy to use, and you really don't need a manual.  I really love the ability to find nearby restaurants and shopping places.The beanbag mount is great for all the cars I rent on business trips...  Just slap it on the dashboard, plug it in and go.  I was considering a Garmin C340 initially, but for the small difference in price, why buy a crippled low-end, hard-to-read-in-sunlight unit?  You'll be sorry you didn't go for the 2720 if you buy a C330 or C340.  The 2720 has the same easy-to-use interface as the C3xx with a much more readable screen, and far more features.Honestly, I can't find anything wrong with this unit.  Buy one.  You'll be glad you did.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "It's time to buy an in-car navigator", "unixReviewTime": 1125100800, "reviewTime": "08 27, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1FOXAXSU02MPO", "asin": "B000A5T7AO", "reviewerName": "Tom Curious", "helpful": [264, 267], "reviewText": "I am currently trying out the Garmin 2720 and the Magellan 6000, both top end units, to see which one I am going to keep. Tough choice ! Both are terrific for routing, have all the advanced features, like text to speech and traffic info option, but neither one is perfect.Here are the pros and cons of the Garmin 2720, as compared to the Magellan Roadmate 6000:Pros:1. The maps of the 2720 are much more readable. On the 6000, it is hard to see which street label belongs to which line. The 6000 is also practically useless to use as a map (just scrolling and zooming around), since it is way too slow and jumpy. The 2720 is perfect in these respects. Scrolling is very smooth. When a destination is entered, the corresponding map is shown, and can be zoomed in. Very cool. I had first tested the 6000, and once I tried the 2720 I could not believe how good it was (or how bad the 6000 was). The map quality is a difference like day and night. With the 6000, I had trouble to understand the map even for the areas I am familiar with, like the block around our home or office.2. Dash mount. I prefer the beanbag mount of the 2720, since it is easy to move from one car to another, or to stow away. Plus, the windshield mount is not legal in CA. For the 6000, no beanbag option is offered yet. With the beanbag mount, the unit does usually sit a little farther away from the driver (at least in my car), but this is no problem with the 2720, since it has a convenient remote control.Cons:1. No battery ! Very annoying that you can program your route on the 2720 only after starting the car. This problem is compounded by the long startup time of the 2720 (around 10 sec vs. 1 second for the 6000), and the fact that the 2720 does not start to navigate until it has a satellite lock. So when I start the car, enter my destination and start driving, there will be no directions. The 2720 then has trouble to get the inital satellite lock while driving, so I have to pull over and wait until it has the lock and gives directions. The 6000 starts navigating from the last known position. Also, I can take the 6000 home and program it from my sofa, then take it with me to the car and start driving.2. Interactive POI: most POI (like restaurants) are not displayed on the 2720 map. You need to search for them via menu, and then get a list. On the 6000, you see the icons for restaurants, gas station etc. displayed right on the map, and you can click on an icon to get details or to have the 6000 plot the route to them.3. POI search. On the 2720, you can only search for POI around your current location, or any other specific location that you need to enter first. If you don't know the approximate location, you are out of luck. With the 6000, you can enter a restaurant name and bring up matches for the whole state. I used it to find a restaurant in a city 300 miles away, and it only took a few seconds. On the 2720, it was very difficult to find it at all.4. Destination search. If you enter a city or street that does not exist (due to typo), the 2720 will bring up a prompt \"Not found\". The 6000 is much smarter and does not even let you enter something invalid. If you enter the first city letter, for example, then it presents only those letters for your choice of the 2nd letter that correspond to actual cities in the database, others are grayed out. Very convenient.5. Destination entry order. With the 6000, you enter the street first. You can omit prefixes like N or S. It will then show you the available range of numbers. This is very convenient if you just want to drive to a certain street (i.e. you know that a certain restaurant is on that street), but don't know the number. Enter the street first on the 6000, then pick some number in the middle of the available range and go. It will also figure out the street prefix based on the number. With the 2720, you need to enter the number first, and then later you get a prompt to correct it if it was invalid.6. Locate button. The 6000 has one. Press it, and it shows you city and nearby street and other details, and you can also save it. The 2720 has no such feature.7. Route options. Both have \"shortest time\" or \"shortest distance\" options, but only the 6000 also has options \"prefer freeways\" and \"avoid freeways\".8. Screen size. The 6000 screen is a bit larger.I have not made a decision yet. Even though there are only two areas where the 2720 has the advantage over the 6000, these two points weigh heavily. Especially the map readability, since this is one of the main reasons to have a GPS. As I said, tough choice.UPDATE AS OF 08/21/06:I returned the Magellan 6000. Due to the poor map display, it was of little use, no matter what features it offered.The 2720, even with the shortcommings listed above, is much more usable and even enjoyable in daily use. I have also updated it's firmware with the latest version from the Garmin website (was very easy to do), and now at least item 3 (POI search) is pretty much fixed. It still takes quite long to find a POI that is far away (2 minutes vs. 10 seconds on the 6000, for a POI 300 miles away). But at least you can find it at all, plus it gives an indication of the increasing search radius while it is searching. Since such a search scenario is pretty infrequent, I can live with the delay. The fact that Garmin improved the firmware also makes me hopefull that some of the other shortcommings can be fixed over time (except for the missing battery of course).As for the missing battery, we compared the 2720 against the Garmin nuvi 360, which has a very similar feature set and operation, but includes a battery. The nuvi 360 has some advantages, it's ideal for carrying around and has a few extras like MP3 player. Still, our verdict was to stick with the 2720. This was mosty my wife's decision who by now has fallen in love with the 2720. It was due to the follwing advantages the 2720 has over the nuvi:- 2720 has a larger and brighter display- 2720 sits very secure on it's beanbag mount and can be moved easily to another vehicle. It feels and is more robust.- 2720 includes the City Navigator on DVD, where you can plan your route ahead of time and make changes, then download it to the 2720. This is invaluable for larger trips. Even if you don't make any changes, it is very helpful to preview the route on the larger computer screen, zoom into sections etc. We tried it for one route and found it to be terrific. (Only inconvenience again is that you need to connect the unit to an AC adaptor in addition to the computer as it has no battery)- The audio is a bit better, due to the larger speakerSo bottom line, we decided on this GPS, the Garmin Street Pilot 2720. I'll keep it a 3 stars for it's missing battery and other smaller shortcommings, but after our research it's still the best unit out there.UPDATE AS OF 08/28/06:We have now completed our first longer trip with the 2720, and it worked out great. So we are confident that we made the right decision. Routing was efficient, it picked the perfect routes and guided us flawlessly. The best part however, as compared to other devices, is the terrific quality of the map display. It looks that the 2720 is smart enough to always show the right angle and zoom, depending where you are (on highway, approaching a ramp, in rural area, in city streets etc), to give you the most information. Also, the map is very easy and quick to grasp, even in an unfamiliar area, which is important while driving. Just to give an example: While on the highway, traffic was slowing, and we could see a jam ahead. There was also an exit just comming up. Wondering if I should take it, I glanced at the 2720 and saw that it displayed the exit, highlighted a parallel street a few blocks away, and even showed at a bird's eye view how that street would merge back onto our highway a few miles away. So I just took the exit, and the 2720 recalculated the route immediately and guided me on the parallel road and then back onto the highway later. Voila, the jam was gone. I did not have to press any button or interact with the 2720 in any way while doing the detour. I guess when using the traffic info feature, the 2720 would even do such recommendation proactively, but I have not tried this yet. It works just fine the way it is.To round this review up, during daily use we have found that we do not miss the few firmware shortcommings that much (and Garmin is improving on them). The battery we do miss a bit, but less than we originally thought. You will have to decide for yourself, of course. We found that once the novelty of the GPS wears off, we no longer carry the unit home that much to play with it (for which we'd miss the battery). And while driving, we just enjoy the precise directions and the terrific map.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Good navigator, with several flaws", "unixReviewTime": 1155686400, "reviewTime": "08 16, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2SNSC2U05O4TQ", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "Alison Ginter \"Goddess Alison\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "I travel for my business (I'm a consultant for a party plan company), so I drive all over the state.  I struggled for almost 4 years with Mapquest printouts until I finally took the leap to buy a GPS.  The C340 has been rather accurate and I love that while I'm nearing my Hostesses house it tells me exactly how close I am and on what side of the street to be looking!  My only complaints would be that sometimes it prompts me to turn a little too late (not enough time to slow down and make the turn) and when I'm in a really wooded area and it loses satellite reception, I think it would be nice if it would continue the directions guestimating when you would near your next turn until it regains satellite reception.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A Direct Saleswoman's Best Friend!", "unixReviewTime": 1163462400, "reviewTime": "11 14, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1ULTI09BI3656", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "Arif S. Alam \"luv high tech toys\"", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "I love my Garmins. I own the C330 and 340. The C340 is excellent value for the money and does a fine job in directing me towards my destination.There are some concerns that people should consider. The unit takes longer than my C330 to find its bearing - sometimes more than a minute or two. Also, the text to speech is too mechanical and monotonous. It could/should do a better job than one of my kids toys that cost about $20-30.On the other hand, the mapping software is excellent.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Some growing pains", "unixReviewTime": 1153785600, "reviewTime": "07 25, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AGEOKCBGVUQV6", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "Bill R.", "helpful": [38, 39], "reviewText": "My wife and I recently took a vacation and decided to rent a GPS unit with our car.  Instantly hooked!!!  We saw far more of the city than we would have without it.  Like the microwave or a VCR when they first came out...this is one of those gadgets that will leave you wondering how you managed to survive without it!  So after doing my \"homework\" we decided to buy the Streetpilot C340.  As the other reviews have stated, it is very easy to use from the time you first turn it on.  And unlike the C330 model (which will say \"Turn right in 300 feet\"), the C340 will say \"Turn right on Main Street\" which is VERY useful when you can't afford to look away from the road.The biggest problem I have could be fixed easily by garmin...map detail.  Here are a few problems that I found.1.) During the initial test of the unit, I looked up \"Casinos.\"  It could not find the casino in my hometown that had been there for 10+ years (nor one just 2 hours away that had been there for 6 years).  It did however find several others that were either in major cities or had been there longer.2.) In the neighboring town (population 3500), it listed 60% of the streets as \"county route #\" rather than the actual street name.3.) We tried to find a church for a wedding we were attending located outside the city limits on backroads.  After browsing the map (visually) we found the street.  However the unit could not find it via typing because after a few letters it tried to guess the street name.  Normally this would be a very nice feature, but (at times) it isn't close.  And, as I listed above, it may not even know the street name.  I'm not sure if this can be turned off yet or not.Most of these problems I wouldn't even know about had I not tested it in an area I was already familiar with.  And this area has a low population.  I just expected the maps to be more \"up to date.\"  Overall I have no regrets.  This unit does exactly what it should.  It is extremely easy to use and has a lot of nice features. Pre-programmed points of interest such as: gas stations, hotels, food etc.  It will tell you where they are (starting with the closest), how many miles, and estimate the time you will arrive.  And with one click on \"Home\" it will recalculate and direct you back to where you were staying.  I would recommend this to anyone...***LESS THAN ONE MONTH LATER***Not sure if I have a defective item or not.  We decided to drive a few hours to a nearby major city to do some christmas shopping and have dinner.  The unit did a good job getting us down there (although half of the drive it tooks us on backroads rather than major highways).  It found the area we were looking for with ease.  However the restaurants were another story.  The first restaurant we searched for wasn't even there (I assume it went out of business).  The second search should have only been 8 miles away, however it ended up sending us on a \"wild goose chase\" for about 15 miles, then it started to turn us around and head back the way we came.  We did another search and found the restaurant to be less than a mile away.  Another problem we found is that it doesn't seem to know the difference between left and right.  About 50% of the time it announced the exit to be on the wrong side of the road (along with the last restaurant).I realize this is new technology, however I would have expected better from Garmin.  .....Seriously considering returning the C340!!!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great unit, however needs more map detail", "unixReviewTime": 1129939200, "reviewTime": "10 22, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3IAV51EI6G6N6", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "B. Novida \"bruintoo\"", "helpful": [32, 32], "reviewText": "I bought the c340 to replace the Garmin iQue 3600. There are only a couple of things that I miss from the iQue that are not present in the c340. For example, in the iQue, the street numbers are displayed as you travel down the road; not so with the c340. In the c340, only the street names that are perpendicular to the road you are traveling are displayed (maybe there's a setting I'm missing). I want to know the names of the street adjacent to the one I'm traveling.With that said, the c340 interface is super easy to use. The text-to-speech voices are decent. Additional text-to-speech voices can be downloaded from Garmin. I'm currently running either British male voice or the Aussie male voice. The real time traffic information works well. It alerts you of potential traffic on the road you are traveling or on your route. You can then avoid said traffic by doing a re-route. Be sure to get Garmin GTA-11 and NOT GTA-10 traffic module. The GTA-11 module includes a built-in FM antenna where the GTA-10 does not.One more quibble about the c340 is the timeliness of the map database (maybe this is NAVTEQ's fault). There have been instances where I selected POIs that have moved locations, closed, or are not in the database.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Simple to use, real time traffic info", "unixReviewTime": 1146182400, "reviewTime": "04 28, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A17MKODJ7FY5MG", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "D. Thompson \"-\"", "helpful": [12, 15], "reviewText": "We've only had this for a few weeks but it works predictably and well.  We were receiving a weak but usable satelite signal even inside our house.  My 10 year old daughter had it operational and pretty much figured out how to program it on the way home from the store.  The convenience it provides makes it worth the investment.  The only reason I do not give it 5 stars is for it's size.  It has a battery but it's just large to the point that it is a little cumbersome to use it outside the car.  The Nuvi was considered and given the oportunity I would have spent the extra $$ for the 350 or 360.  If you're considering a gps, this one is great.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "It works very well", "unixReviewTime": 1165104000, "reviewTime": "12 3, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A677SAWN907Q4", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "Findedeux", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "I spent a lot of time looking for a good receiver and eventually settled on this one. I liked the features and the reviews were generally very good. So I ordered this unit and thought that was the end of it. Well, I stumbled upon a website (gpsmagazine.com) and they mentioned units to avoid. The units to avoid included many Garmin units (such as this one) because these units are not being sold with the latest GPS receiver (the SIRF Star III) which is supposed to provide dramatically better results in traditional problem areas (tall buildings, urban areas, tunnels, etc). I confirmed this information with other websites and then decided to order the Garmin Nuvi 350, which has both the new GPS receiver and the other features I wanted. What is really ridiculous is that the Garmin website, even when you compare the units using the compare feature on their website, does not actually show which GPS receiver is being used.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Does NOT have latest GPS receiver!", "unixReviewTime": 1188086400, "reviewTime": "08 26, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3EVG8FCBJ6BHJ", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "Friedman Wagner-Dobler", "helpful": [32, 40], "reviewText": "This is a good GPS and on the whole much more pleasant than the Navman 510 I'd been using. However, it has some drawbacks you should think about:1) It's quite big. There's no hard case for it and its odd shape makes it hard to pack.2) It can take up to 25 minutes (figure from Garmin tech support) for the unit to locate itself after it's been moved by more than 500 miles. This makes it pretty useless as a bring-along GPS. Sitting in a rental car for 25 minutes while the GPS figures out where it is doesn't make a lot of sense...3) The software isn't very stable. I had it lock up twice during a 2-hour trip. Look for future firmware revisions to resolve this. Meantime, the whole unit needs to be reset (which involves removing the face plate - not nice given the frequency with which this seems to be required!)4) The GPS doesn't seem to be as sensitive as the Navman and loses its position more often.All in all, I'd seriously suggest giving the C340 a miss. Look at the Garmin nuvi instead - it has more features, the same screen size, the more sensitive SiRF chip set, stellar GPS performance, and a much smaller form factor.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Nice but flawed for travel use", "unixReviewTime": 1132272000, "reviewTime": "11 18, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AFIR57I2Y901O", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "G. F. THOMAS \"fredth\"", "helpful": [19, 19], "reviewText": "I have never had a GPS before and never been around one until I saw the  reviews of this one on Amazon.I must have had good luck with me when I purchased it. In April I use it on a vacation to North Carolina From Kansas City MO. I am still amazed how well it worked. Just type in the address and start driving.If someone with no more knowledge than I have about GPS systems had the C340 work so beautifully, then I'm sure anyone could use it. I highly recommend this model ,because of the audio and vidio. Worked great!!!!!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "It  Works Great!!!!", "unixReviewTime": 1149292800, "reviewTime": "06 3, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A17771LTRWSKQ5", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "Helen S. Lam", "helpful": [20, 22], "reviewText": "We just bought the Garmin C340 and love its user-friendliness.  However, it was not as user-friendly to set up since the manual is not included in the box.  You must go to the Garmin site to download the manual.  The manual is also quite sparse.  It does not tell you how to add points of interest to the GPS or how to save them to an optional SD card.  Can you just stick the SD card into the slot and download the POI to the SD card through the GPS or do you need to use an SD card reader?Also, the Quick Reference Guide doesn't do a good job of telling you step by step instructions on how to load the drivers, go to the company's site for updates (must download the updater first) or get the POI loader.I would have given the Garmin C340 5 stars had they better instructions.  It's not a cheap product so it should not force the customer to find his/her way in installing and updating the GPS.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Easy to use but no instructions included in the box", "unixReviewTime": 1164758400, "reviewTime": "11 29, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3OMCZ1CRVVB5H", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "Hubble Fan", "helpful": [16, 16], "reviewText": "I bought a Garmin c340 and it worked immediately after a short setup. I took it for a drive around my neighbourhood. It started up really quick. I deliberately missed turns. It would recalcuate a route to take me back in about 5 seconds. The recalculation time was quite consistent. I am really pleased with it. It would be a great help driving at night and in bad weather.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Product - Garmin C340", "unixReviewTime": 1165363200, "reviewTime": "12 6, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1HF6TIJ0YV6JO", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "J. Carlile \"JC\"", "helpful": [289, 293], "reviewText": "First of all, I'm an electronics junkie.  My house looks like the Star Ship Enterprise, and I'm extremely picky concerning the function of everything that I purchase. Probably too picky.  So, after being more than impressed with the Garmin StreetPilot c340, I decided to write this review.  I purchased this unit due to an upcoming road trip to Florida, and I'm HORRIBLE with directions.  It seemed like the logical thing to do. After much research on the latest GPS units, the c340 seemed to be best suited for my needs, financially and functionally.PROS:As stated time and time again, the c340 is extremely user-friendly straight from the box.  No bulky manual is included (although one can be downloaded on-line), most likely due to the fact that it is not needed. There's a brief start-up guide which is more than sufficient to get this thing up and running. Simply let the satellite locate your home location, which takes a few minutes and only has to be done once, and you're ready to input your next destination.  Hit \"Where to?\" on the touchscreen and everything is made perfectly clear.  It could not be any simpler.  You'll then have options to enter addresses, food locations, lodging, your saved favorite locations and recent browsed selections, fuel, intersections, attractions, shopping, parking, entertainment, recreation, community, near-by cities, hospitals, transit, and auto service locations.  There's no guess-work involved: just touch the type of place you wish to find and go; you'll get plenty of options.  You can also touch the \"Near...\" option, type in a city of destination, and it'll pull up businesses in that city for your convenience.  Again, this unit is extremely easy to navigate.  Pick your destination, hit \"Go\", and you're all set. Just follow the highlighted path and you're sure to get there with ease. I've had no problems or long-term satellite loss in my area so far. Phone numbers are also shown which would be especially convenient when making hotel reservations on the road.The suction mount is also very nice.  I was skeptical about it at first: What if it falls off?  Will I be able to see the road? No worries; it's great.  Like the unit itself, the mount is high-quality and very sturdy.  Just attach the c340, place the mount into position (I have it right under my rear view mirror), and pull the lever down.  I don't see any way that this mount could fall off, and it's not a distraction while driving.  I hear that it's illegal in California, but I really don't see why.  It provides the perfect location for the unit and is no more distracting than the rear view mirror.  A dash-mount disc is included also for CA residents or in case you'd prefer a lower location, but it's a permanent mount, so I'd advise caution if going with this option.  I won't use it myself.As far as power goes, a 12V adapter is included for the car, but don't worry about buying the AC adapter.  The c340 includes a USB cable that allows it to be powered and charged via any computer with a USB port. Very convenient when planning out trips at home to save battery life. The USB cable also allows you to download male voices from the Garmin site such as American English Jack, Australian English Lee, and British English Daniel which is very cool.CONS:Not much to say here.  The only 'major' thing I've noticed so far is that some local businesses are not in the database, and a few businesses are present which no longer exist.  It's kind of strange: local mom and pop stores can be pulled up, but NO Walmarts in my area.  I have three Walmarts within 25 miles of my home, and none are in the database.  I didn't subtract any points since all Garmin GPS units seem to utilize the same database (nearly 6 million points of interest) and it does have the potential to be updated. Also, keep your eye on the road during exits as it may not detect recent route changes. It will recalculate a new route if you simply go past the road that has changed; you won't get lost, but it can be an inconvenience. It's happened only once to me so far and I've been doing a lot of traveling. It was a familiar area and I didn't even realize that the road had changed. Again, this is a Garmin database problem which hopefully will be addressed in a future update.The voices for the most part are spot on.  They can pronounce streets that I've been mispronouncing for years.  However, every now and then it's hard to decipher what they're saying as they can sound overly-digitized. This is just a minor inconvenience since most of the time they're flawless, but keep your eye on the screen just in case you don't understand the street name. No big deal really. I use American English Jill, and she is usually very accurate with pronunciations. British English Daniel is also easy to understand, although he must be downloaded.CONCLUSION:All-in-all, I'm very, VERY impressed with the performance of the Garmin c340.  This is my first GPS, and I can't imagine needing anything more.  I'm not sure what these $1000+ units do, but unless they drive me to my destination and pump my gas, I don't need them. I've heard people complain that the touch screen collects finger prints.  Hmmm...unless you have jelly, paint, or motor oil on your fingers, it does not detract from the display.  Hello, it's a TOUCHscreen. Of course it's going to get finger prints on it.  Wipe it off now and then and you're good to go.  I've also heard complaints that sometimes the unit doesn't give you ample time to turn via text-to-speech.  Well, I've been driving everywhere with this thing for the past three days, and it verbally tells you TWICE when to turn, by street name and in which direction to turn.  It tells you once within a 1/4 mile or so and once again right before the turn.  If you miss your turn after two verbal prompts, a big white arrow on the GPS screen, and the name of the street at the top of the screen, you may want to reconsider this whole driving thing.  The turn alert is almost overkill; if you're awake and free from severe brain damage, you can't possibly miss it. Maybe this was a problem with some of the older units, but mine is perfect. Perhaps these people didn't hear the first prompt and of course the voice prompt times will be shorter with city driving, but that's to be expected. As far as satellite loss, I've only experienced a couple seconds of it while driving so far which is no inconvenience at all.  There is an optional generic antenna that can be purchased for around $20 if this is a problem in some areas. The actual Garmin antenna costs more, but I've had no need for it so far.After three days of taking the c340 everywhere, I absolutely love it; I have no regrets whatsoever.  It's one of the top 3 electronic purchases I've ever made in my life.  I can't wait to take it to Florida and find all the local attractions that I would never have been able to locate otherwise. This thing is great. I've already had two friends order the c340 after seeing how well mine works. I guarantee you won't be disappointed!UPDATE:I just returned from Florida, and I love this thing even more.  We never had any need for a map: I simply typed in each destination and we got there with no problems whatsoever.  When we got a craving for some baby back ribs on the interstate, I simply hit food, barbecue, got a nice little list of local restaurants, picked one and hit GO.  It takes you right there!  It then took us right back to the interstate. I'm still amazed that this type of technology can be purchased at a reasonable price.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "If you're bad with directions, you MUST have this!", "unixReviewTime": 1148428800, "reviewTime": "05 24, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A27648TVNQDWUD", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "J. Leo \"jl26\"", "helpful": [24, 25], "reviewText": "Absolutely incredible piece of technology.  For anyone who's never used a street GPS before, this will change the way you drive.  Hollywood will have to stop making those lost-teen horror movies.Pros:Crystal clear screen - ok so it gets slightly hard to see in sunlight, but never once was I unable to see the words on the screen.Text-to-speech synthesizer sounds very lifelike.  Reads street names like a real person.  The c330 model would say \"Turn left in 500 ft.\"  The c340 would say \"Turn left on Main Street\"Distance to turn shown on bottom right at all times.Tells you to bear left or right to exit highway.  Always does this with enough time to change lanes.  On an interstate, gives you .8 miles advance warning.  On a street, gives you 200 ft. warning.  Perfect timing.Accurate to about 10 ft. of your actual location.Imagine never having to look up your location in some crinkly paper map or go on Mapquest.com ahead of your trip.Attractions/Points of Interest locator.  If you need a restaurant, just pick the type of cuisine and it will tell you all the restaurants nearby in order of distance from your current location.  Also shows the direction arrow so you don't choose one that makes you go back and further away from your destination.Why buy a $2000 factory option when you can buy this portable unit which is 10x better and can be moved between cars?Cons: They don't cost $19.99.  And it's not hooked up to the steering and gas pedals to drive my car automatically.  Other than that, it's the best money I ever spent on technology.  I've done a ton of research before buying the c340 and it paid off.  The next-generation c550 is probably better but also $200 more.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Got the whole wide world in my hands.", "unixReviewTime": 1150416000, "reviewTime": "06 16, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A18NPUB5CNXZOE", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "John Boland \"John  Boland\"", "helpful": [30, 43], "reviewText": "The Garmin C340 is \"a good product.\"  BUT, it is currently NOT \"state of the art\".  For almost the same price you can get the Garmin C530.  The C530 has a brighter screen.  And, just as important, the C530 has a \"Sirf\" receiver.  With the \"Sirf\" receiver the C530 can \"acquire sattlites\" even inside my house---where before with an i3 I could not.  And, I shopped around finding several places that sell the C530 for about $465.  If you send me an email, if Amazon will allow it, I'll tell you where I found this lower price!  Email:boland7214@aol.PS: Yes, it's true the C530 does NOT have \"voice recognition\" announcing the upcoming street name.  But, do you really need it?  I don't miss voice recognition because the SAME INFORMATION is PRINTED on TOP of the C530 screen in BIG LETTERS.  If you can read you WILL know what is the next street---you HAVE to look at the GPS anyway to see where to turn...so just READ the next street. It's \"no problem\" in my opinion.Afterword:  Stop!  I have to tell the truth. My C530 just \"died\"----wont't start up! I'll let you know what happens later.AfterAfterword:  As of Nov. 1, 2007:  The FACTS are as above plus I am PLEASED to report that my C530 that \"died\"  was replaced FREE by Garmin and for over a year now it has worked VERY WELL at home here in California and during three LONG trips to NYC, DC, and Orlando.  I LOVE the thing!  But, the price on these has come WAY down!  With the prices much lower, I now recommend Garmins latest such as The Nuvi 270 and Garmin C570---both of which include the North America maps and the European maps for a VERY reasonable price---and they have \"voice recognition of street names\" which I admit is a good feature----not mandatory but useful when there are several freeway or street exits close to each other.  OK, stop the mean attacks in the \"comments section\" and go someplace and have some fun, ok?  :o)", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Do NOT Buy This One---Buy The C530 Instead!", "unixReviewTime": 1158364800, "reviewTime": "09 16, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1BK60GZ4QME6I", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "John W. Graham", "helpful": [280, 283], "reviewText": "I was originally going to get the C320 but the text-to-speech feature made me decide to get the C340 instead.  Overall, after having owned this unit for approx. 2 years, I am pleased with it.  When I first got it, to build my faith in the product, I used it for a week just entering the places I normally go to see how the unit performed.First I tried to enter a restuarant I have been going to for years.  Route planning was very fast - the only problem is that the route took me 6 miles away from the restuarant into a residential neighborhood.  The destination was someone's house in this neighborhood!  To retest, I chose the restuarant address from the built in POI listing instead of typing it in...and the result was the same.  It had me going into a subdivision and to someone's house.  My second test was entering my work address.  This worked fairly well except that a 2-year old change in the road was not registered on the map.  So the unit got really confused when I was driving through what looked like a lake on the screen.  Recalculation can be irritating as the unit repeatedly tries to force you to do U-Turns to get back on what it thinks is the best route.  I'm sure this is region specific.Bottom line here...don't rely on the restuarant listings.My next test was a little longer - it was a 25 mile drive to my mother's house.  Again, route planning was very fast (3-4 seconds).  The route was very accurate to her house but the route seemed to favor toll roads and highways.  The result was the same when I modified the preferences to prefer \"back roads\" and avoid highways.  About 7 miles into the trip to mom's house, the C340 locked up completely.  I reset it and reprogrammed the route (you have to stop the car to do this safely).  Then, 5 miles down the road it locked up again.  I checked for later firmware when I got home and there was none, but an email to customer support was all it took to get a firmware update that resolved this issue.So with various other tests, I give it a ~90% chance of picking the correct route to wherever you are going (at least in my area)...but often times it does get you where you intend to go but takes you far out of the way.  A few major highways are missing from the basemap in my area, which were corrected when I paid $75 for the 2006 map update.  Common sense and a backup map are sometimes necessary.Ok, about the unit itself...the text to speech is worth the extra money of you are considering buying it for that reason.  Text to Speech pronunciation has been corrected with several firmware revisions.  I have not had any major issues with the text-to-speech pronunciation since these firmware updates were applied.The screen is bright and the whole thing is smaller than I expected - but there really is no excuse for being upset about the size when you can go to Best Buy or Circuit City and see it for yourself.So:Pros - bright screen, doesn't wash out too bad (I have deeply tinted windows) and speech volume is appropriate.  Planning is quick.It is very accurate on where to turn, giving ample time for braking or lane changing.Cons - with earlier firm revisions it used to lock up frequently, power cable goes to mounting base, routing not accurate in many cases, and some POI are incorrect.  Searching an address is glacially slow.  Shows many obscure restuarants but overlooks the mainstream ones. Some of the cardinal directions are reversed.  I was going to get on an expressway going east and the directions said to go west.  (The drawn map was correct, just the speech was wrong)Bottom line is that after using this for routine trips around town as well as jaunts into unfamiliar areas, I recommend it.Update: 11/25/05: On Thanksgiving day I took a longer trip of about 50 miles.  Set to use WAAS, the C340 locked up at exactly tyhe same point as in my previous review, about 7 miles from my home on a major highway.  The unit definitely locks up at this point consistently and I will be informing Garmin.  I did find that turning off WAAS reduces the amount of lockups but I can still get it to lock up with WAAS turned off.  When it does work, the C340 is impressive in its accuracy and display.  The automatic daylight to dark screen contrast is nice.  But I still can't recommend the product because of the instability.  I'll post an update here if I can get a response from Garmin.12/30/05 Update:  Several weeks ago, Garmin released updated firmware for the C340.  I downloaded and installed the firmware update.  Address entry appears to be improved and I have not encountered the lockups previously mentioned since applying this firmware patch.  That said, I still have a hard time recommending the c340 for the price and other minor to moderate issues, but I am happier now that the lockups are gone.5/22/07 Update: Changed my recommendation and rating of this product.  I have gone many places with my Garmin and it is still a solid performer.  Just recently, I went from Orlando to Hampton Roads, VA and the Garmin was very accurate.  One thing I do want to add is that the Garmin likes to use major highways.  Unchecking this feature is not advised as the Garmin will go \"bonkers\" using back roads and even dirt roads to get you to your destination.  You must update the firmware frequently as Garmin continually irons out the bugs in the product.  I still don't think this thing was ready for prime time when it was first sold...too many bugs!  But now, with the latest firmwares and maps, I solidly recommend the Garmin to my friends, family and anyone.  I now give it 4 stars, not three, though Amazon won't let me edit that part.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Your Mileage May Vary", "unixReviewTime": 1132531200, "reviewTime": "11 21, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AHOVKKHZLQ62E", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "K. Faber", "helpful": [16, 19], "reviewText": "This unit lives up to the hype.Pro's1) Very easy to use2) Extensive database also provides phone numbers for businesses3) Built-in battery provides 3 hours of use when away from the car. When traveling I use the unit as a form of directory assistance.4) Updating the unit was simple (go to the Garmin Website). The included Cable uses standard usb cable (similar to a camera) on both ends. This is nice to have in case you ever lose it. Unlike the handheld Garmin Legend which uses a funky cable dreamed up by some electrical engineer.Cons:1) Sometimes the unit does not announce the 1st direction to a route. I have no idea why. This usually happens on the return route home.2) Does anyone know why I would use the SD card slot? The manual states it has one (duh), but does not list why you would use it. I'm guessing that Garmin put it there because lower cost models are built on the same chassis and need one.3) Detours: I wish there was a way to say, Give me a Detour for x miles. Instead it recalculates an alternate route for you automatically when course deviates from plan. Although this is nice it is not the same thing. I would prefer it if it could do either.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Nice unit", "unixReviewTime": 1143417600, "reviewTime": "03 27, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AYPXH5E2QG54W", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "K. Fung \"Arsenal\"", "helpful": [31, 35], "reviewText": "After review different GPS unit (C320, C330, Street Pilot, etc), I finally pulled my trigger and bought the C340.  This is the first GPS unit I have ever own. When I received the unit, I turned it on right away.  I didn't even look at the menu (1 page) before I start using it.  Very straight forward and very easy to use.  I would say it is very easy to overcome the learning curve with the C340.  So far I dont see any major problem except getting poor signal after \"sitting\" under a bridge over several minutes or lost signal in the basement inside a structure.  I believe this is not really a problem as other GPS(s) have the same problem and plus that make no sense to use the GPS inside a structure.  This unit has a SD card slot and I may buy the Europe Map CD to test it in Europe ...... if I have a chance.Pros:Compact, easy to use, good battery lifeCons:hmm ... get poor signal after \"sitting\" under the bridge under a whileConclusion:The unit do exactly what it should -- take you to the destination in the shortest distance.  But of course, it doesn't have the AI:1) to make short cut like getting into some side streets2) taking stop signs into account", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Do exactly what it can do - take you to the destination.", "unixReviewTime": 1132876800, "reviewTime": "11 25, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AFG1RHLO2TQD1", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "Lauren Gale", "helpful": [424, 434], "reviewText": "I was looking for a solution to stop driving my fianc''s car, which has a factory installed GPS, because my car gets better gas mileage.  When considering the options, for my car to get a stereo faced GPS unit (the new Panasonic), it was going to be more than I wanted to pay, in the area of $2500 (this including installation, the stereo faceplate for my car (Mazda6)).  That option was unacceptable so I went looking for another option.I chose the Garmin C340 for a few reasons.  First, I'm a gadget freak and it was a new model coming out.  Second, it has a traffic ready option which means if you buy the antenna and pay for the service, it will navigate you around a traffic jam...the only word for that is COOL! (especially since I live in the DC area).  I haven't bought the antenna, so I haven't tried this option.  Third, we travel a lot out of the country, and wanted a unit that could be taken all over the world.  Fourth, Garmin has such a great reputation, that I felt confident in buying a brand new product from them.I received the box two days ago, and took the GPS out for a spin immediately.  I was amazed at how well it worked.  I didn't have a problem with it acquiring satellites in the city at all.  The only problems I did have with the GPS are: 1) that I couldn't input an address until I called Garmin because only two states would appear.  I called Garmin about the problem, and apparently it's a common problem with new units and they had a simple solution for it. 2) The bracket/stand that comes standard is hard to tighten, so for someone with arthritis or bad hands will have a lot trouble fastening the bracket/stand so that the GPS unit does not move when in use on the dashboard. 3) I expected more in the box, it essentially only came with a driver CD, and the GPS unit.All in all, I fully endorse this product.  It's a viable GPS solution for those who don't want to spend a small fortune to get their car into the 21st century.~/~/~/Update\\~\\~\\~I've traveled to several US cities, Canadian cities, and European cities (see posted pictures) and this thing has NEVER let me down.  It loses reception in tunnels and garages, but quickly reacquires satellites upon leaving those places.The complaints I have are that: 1) while navigating, the Garmin will change my zoom perspective when directing me to make a turn, and not return it to my original view, 2) it will not allow you to transfer pre-selected routes from your mapping software (i.e. City Select Europe) BUT it will allow you to transfer Waypoints, which can then be mapped to, and 3) that it will direct you to \"turn\" when you're actually staying straight...which, if I don't have the voice activation going OR I'm listening to music loud, will lead me to make wrong turns.  Other than that, this thing is flippin' sweet!%-% second update (3/15/07):So, I had to send my Garmin in to be replaced; the battery died.  I learned that 1) Garmin has some excellent customer service.  I didn't buy the warranty, and they replaced my unit free of charge - unit and window mount.  I was only without a GSP for 8 days.  And the transferred my saved locations and upgraded the software.  WoW.  Nothing but thumps up.  If I could change my rating to 5 stars, I would based on the customer service.  2) I learned that you must plug the unit into a wall or computer via wall every few months to charge the battery.  If you don't, the battery will lose charge and eventually die.  But if it dies, CALL GARMIN.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "This is amazing. - Oops, 5 stars.", "unixReviewTime": 1129161600, "reviewTime": "10 13, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3IG9HEULYL9CK", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "Michael Xavier", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "So far so good. I really became intrigued and interested in GPS units after a cross country trip from South Florida to Toronto Canada. My boss was kind enough to lend me his nav system, a 2600 Garmin series, not sure of the exact model. My wife and I felt so at ease knowing we had a nav system to keep us guided. This made the trip really relaxing. So I started researching a system for purchase. I checked, googled and yahooed to find out much detail as I could about these products. I looked at the Magellan, the Garmins and the Tom Toms. Based on feedback from this forum, I decided to purchase the C340 for myself. I found the prices were so friendly, I also bought the i3 for my wife. We have loved the units so far. Some folks have griped about accuracy and outdated maps etc, come on, this is to be expected as things constantly change. I am happy with my unit knowing that it will always get me close. No issues so far as I immediately downloaded all software updates available from Garmin's website. The only thing I would change is faster notification of up coming turns, maybe I have to fiddle with the settings so that it notifies you of turns faster.Update: The notification changes depending on how fast you are going, so at faster speeds, like on the highway it gives ample time and more advanced notice for your upcoming exits. So this is not even an issue.Update#2: I am happy to report that the units continue to perform flawlessly. I sometimes use it as a yellow pages, much faster and convenient because it gives you the distance. My wife has really started to use her model now and she does not leave home without. I am lucky that my cell phone and the unit uses the same type of USB Charger, so now I only carry one charger in the car which fits all my devices, blackberry, cell and C340. I simply place a cap on my dash, to cover the unit if I am making a short stop, no one can tell it is on the dash under the cap.I recommended that when you get the unit use it in familiar area so you get used to the way it operates and you will never have a problem.Update #3. Continues to work great. A couple of quirks, it gives you distance to the next major interchange if you are on an expressway, this can be a little confusing, because you are not planning to exit, the i3 does not do that. Instead it gives you distance to your next exit or turn.I was having issues with glare during the day and finally figured out that if the screen is angled slightly upwards the glare is eliminated.The unit did make one mistake last week, on a trip through Orlando, it had me exit and then re-enter I4 for no reason. I had the wife's i3 along for comparison and it did not do that. Seems to be a map error, which I will write garmin about. Still love my umit.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Very Nice So far", "unixReviewTime": 1153526400, "reviewTime": "07 22, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2ARDVMUGDFED6", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "MiRSD", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "I purchased the Garmin c340 unit about a year ago and have used it on a regular basis since. Overall this is a fantastic unit that I just couldn't do without.. unfortunately it does still have a few drawbacks.Starting with the good:Fast startup - approximately 8 seconds from when you hit the power button to when you have access to the main menu.Nice, large screen which is easy to use even during the daytime (and switches to another color scheme at night to make it easier to use).Nice battery life - uses internal batteries and charges (or powers off of) a cigarette lighter adapter. This is what I use while in the car and the battery holds a lengthy charge when unplugged from it (between 8 and 10 hours in my experience). There is a slight negative to this which I'll touch on more later on.Straight-forward and easy to navigate. It includes a listing of several businesses in your current area which are sorted by category (Gas stations, hotels, restaurants, Attractions, shopping, parking, hospitals, etc..) - Good for when you're in a new area or don't have a lot of time to cruise around and see what's around you. A \"Browse map\" will show a map of your current location and allow you to see (via icons) what's close by.You can also enter a street address and be taken right there.Like the battery issue, theres also a slight negative to the included directory.Text-To-Speech: My reason for buying this unit over the others. Hearing \"Turn right in 300 yards\" can be confusing if you're in an area with short blocks or multiple streets close to eachother. Text to speech will actually speak the street names to you, telling you to \"Turn right at Main Street\". Great feature I wouldn't do without!The cons:Very bulky unit - While it is only about 3 inches tall by about 4 inches wide, it's about 3 1/2 inches deep. Compared to the higher end Garmins which can fit in your front pocket, this one has trouble fitting in even a wide pants pocket. Since I take mine with me when entering stores (after seeing just how many cars get broken into when theyre sitting in plain sight), it becomes a hassle. I eventually had to purchase a camera-case (Sony LCS-CSD General Carrying Case for Compatible Cybershot Digital Cameras) which holds it perfectly.. but I find that I still have to clip it to my belt loop because of the size of the unit.Internal battery: VERY nice as you dont need to change it, but you're limited to the power it has. If you're without a car-adapter the battery will be dead about 8-10 hours later.. Additionally, these batteries are known to lose their holding power over time (this was an issue with the iPod) - meaning that 3-4 years from now it might only hold for 3 hours.Internal Directory: Another nice feature but since it was preloaded when the maps were created, you'll look up a restaurant or store only to find that it no longer exists. Not a big \"Con\" but you will come across it from time to time.Poor satellite reception compared to new Garmin's: The c340 loses reception when not in the direct open - if you take it in your house, a store, or get stuck in a tunnel you will likely lose connection until you get to the other side. Newer garmins will work perfectly even in these same conditions. Not a huge problem but if you're in a location covered with trees you may also lose connection.---A few other notes:Touch screen and user interfaces are very easy to use.The c340 lacks features like the bluetooth phone connection, MP3 player, traffic (an optional antenna and subscription is required on the c340), movie times and gas prices of the newer units. It's nice to press a button and see the current gas prices of every gas station nearby (in realtime) or what time a movie is starting.. Unfortunately those features are not present on this model. If you can deal without these (as I could), the c340 makes a perfect GPS unit. I do wish that I purchased one of the slim-units to make it more portable but at twice the price, I just couldnt justify it.Pick one up and you'll have a great time with it![UPDATE: July 01, 2007]: Just took the garmin on a short road trip with me. 3 hour drive to a city I've never traveled to - my only preparation being typing the address into my Garmin. As soon as I typed it in, the system estimated my arrival time (6:12). This time did fluctuate slightly during the trip based on how fast I was going. 3 hours later and I arrived at my destination - just a 6 minute difference in time from the estimated time and my arrival time (I arrived at 6:06).The garmin got my there in one piece and showed me around town!The only trouble I had (and this is the first of it's kind that I've experienced in the ~10 months I've owned the unit) was that the display read \"Exit (x street)\" while the voice prompt (and visual map) suggesting continuing on the freeway. I took my chances and stayed on the freeway which turned out to be the correct answer (I'm sure the garmin would have steered me back onto the freeway either way).Can't wait til my next trip!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Wonderful unit with a few drawbacks", "unixReviewTime": 1174608000, "reviewTime": "03 23, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A36WMFD8PZ8SHT", "asin": "B000A5TAT2", "reviewerName": "nopotato", "helpful": [35, 39], "reviewText": "The system gets you there, & text to speech is fantastic. but  the unit rarely picks the route that one believes it should , but rather suggests an alternate. Where we live it is invariably the case that it does not pick the best route. Unlilke other units,  there is no method of requesting it to suggest an alternative. Likewise if one hears on 1010 am or wherever of impending traffic jam up along the way, one cannot direct it to pick another route until one is very close to the scene (where it has the limited functinality detour button), by which time it is too late to do anything sensible. My wife has a factory fitted model, which allows you to continually request the system to pick an alternate for any point in its route. a benefit we have availed ourselves of constantly.The hardware is very convenient. It sticks to the windscreen like glue, & is completely portable with battery operated system so no unsightly wires, another plus. On downside, it takes time to calibrate its position if you have moved the car since switiching it off, & is far slower at refreshing than a factory fitted. The lighting is very good.  A software update fixed the periodic freezing of the system.So overall, effective at ensuring you get to your destination, but not necessarily in an optimal way, & no use at avoiding traffic you are alerted to. If you dont want or need the ability to request alternative suggestions, this is a good choice.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "mostly great hardware, but software not for the experts", "unixReviewTime": 1133481600, "reviewTime": "12 2, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1K0WOHJX5B8OK", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer", "helpful": [272, 287], "reviewText": "My internet research and experience with these indicates that they are at least as good, and probably better, than anything else for the price.  The sound quality from these headphones is fantastic.  You can pick out the individual voices of the backup singers.  Things like the drummer's brushes sound vastly improved, and many other little details.  I have created mp3s using LAME at the \"insane\" quality setting, 320 kilobits/sec, with optimizations, and I can distinguish subtle sounds in the original stream that are muted or altered in the MP3.  Poor quality recordings, or overly compressed MP3s sound terrible compared to what these headphones are capable of.  I find it most impressive compared to lesser headphones in pieces that have vocals and acoustical instruments.The headphone has an ultra-low impedance, 24 ohms, which means it can be easily powered by portable players, and achieve more than enough volume.  Since a 1/4\" screw-on adapter is included, so this headphone can be used equally well on your portable or your home stereo.  Both the base mini plug and 1/4\" adaptor are gold-plated.  If use this headphone on a portable player with a large disc, you may be tempted to keep your most listened-to recordings uncompressed (or in the FLAC lossless format, for the few devices that support that).According to my research, the headphones have an extremely even response over the whole spectrum.  That means that what you are hearing is pretty close to the original intent when the music  was mixed.  Some users have complained that the bass response is low -- but I think that's compared to headphones / earbuds / in-ear monitors whose bass response is too high.  If you don't like the bass response, simply change the equalizer settings on your unit.The headphone has a closed design, blocking out outside sounds.  This is the best way to go in my opinion, because with outside noise you need to raise the volume higher to achieve the same clarity, and you risk damaging your hearing.  These headphones can be played at low volumes and still sound great.  The only other option for \"closed-ear\" is some of the ear-sealing in-ear-monitors, but the good ones are very, very expensive.  The in-ear-monitors also have the disadvantage that the sounds of brushing the cable, and even sometimes your own breathing and heartbeat, is trasmitted to your ear.The headphone can also be used as a monitor headphone, i.e. to hear what you are recording while you are recording it--that in fact is it's primary intent.  There is basically no sound leakage  so it works very well--also meaning your won't annoy those around you when you listen to music.  I own a Sony Hi-MD (MZ-RH910), which I record voice audio with, and so this monitor ability is very welcome.I find the headphone very comfortable.  Like any closed headphone, it does make your ears warm, but I have not found this to be noticably uncomfortable.  I believe this headphone is suppossed to be more over-the ear rather than on the ear (i.e. like Sennheiser HD 25-SP), but be warned that the opening for each ear is small -- my ears barely fit in them, and I do not have large ears.  From a comfort point of view, I recommended that you try this set on before purchasing them.  I tried mine on before buying and purchased them from a retail outlet.  Another plus for this set is that only one cable comes out of the left side of the unit, the connection to the right channel is through the arch over your head.  Furthermore, the cable drops out about 1 inch from your neck, so it usually doesn't touch you.  I find this greatly preferable to having cables hanging out of both sides of your head that always seem to be brushing you somewhere.  All earbuds, in-ear-monitors, and even many hyper-expensive headsets (i.e. Sennheiser HD 650), have cables coming out of both ears.The Sony 7506 headphone is super-rugged, exceptional quality from start to  finish.The only possible negative I see is the cable -- it's a non-removable, long, thick, heavy-duty coiled cable.  For use on your home stereo, it's great.  But for use outside the home on a digital music player, it is inconvenient, as the bundled coiled cable probably takes as much space as your player.  However, it's not unusable, from the left earpiece there is just enough straight cable to reach down to your waist -- where you can stuff the coiled cable in your pocket or in a case along with your player.  But if you plan on using this mostly on a digital player outside your home, this alone could a be deal buster.  It is also fairly bulky to carry around.  You can probably forget about using this headphone on your bicycle, or while jogging, or anything where you are moving around outside.Overall, this is a very well made set of headphones that will deliver beautiful and pristine sound at a reasonable price.  Highly recommended.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Pristine sound", "unixReviewTime": 1121472000, "reviewTime": "07 16, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AJSJEDQR13SNH", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "Dick Oliver", "helpful": [747, 769], "reviewText": "I run a digital arts studio and teach digital arts, and have tried more than a dozen different headphones in the $15 to $250 price range. Again and again, I go back to using the MDR-7506 for all applications from digital video shooting and editing to music recording and studio mastering. Most of the pros I know also use the MDR-7506 when they have a choice--and buy them for use at home too.What makes these the best? First and foremost, excellent reproduction from bass into the high end, with unrivalled \"punch\" and clarity. They are much louder at a given input volume than most headphones, which is important if your are recording in the field and need to hear the headphone monitoring above the ambient sound and the live sound around you. They are comfortable, instantly adjust to different head sizes without any fussing, sturdy and easily repairable, and stowe quickly and easily in the included soft drawstring bag.I do keep a couple of pairs of high-end ($300+) headphones to check as references when mastering music, but honestly I seldom find anything with them that isn't already clear with the 7506es.The only problem I can report is that, even though they invariably outlast other headphones in terms of wear-and-tear, they do get STOLEN more often by my students. Once you get used to the 7506, its hard to go back to using any other headphones that cost less that twice their price.I still dream of someday discovering a comparable headphone set for half or a quarter the price of the MDR7506. Every year, I buy a few $25 or $50 models just out of hope. So far, however, nothing out there qualifies as \"acceptable\" to me--including the many competing $99 headphone models from other companies and even from Sony.Bottom line: Don't hesitate. You absolutely cannot go wrong with the MDR7506. This is the headphone of choice, the industry standard. The only reason they're so cheap is MARKET VOLUME--Sony sells a lot of these to audio and video pros!!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Tried them all--these are the best.", "unixReviewTime": 1132099200, "reviewTime": "11 16, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "ANOEOHRLK11P0", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "D L", "helpful": [27, 32], "reviewText": "I've worn out the other two! The 7506 is indeed the industry standard, a smooth sounding headphone and very rugged. It takes a few hours to break 'em in so the bass becomes 'normal', and after that the bottom end is slightly exaggerated (when compared to the 7509's,) but that's something I like anyway. I found the 7509's to be somewhat lifeless --for twice the money!I monitor through Mackie 624's with subwoofer and these 7506's compare pretty well to my $2,400 speaker system- this should tell you something about the 7506's!?I love these 'phones. Highly recommended.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I'm on my third pair of these excellent phones...", "unixReviewTime": 1111795200, "reviewTime": "03 26, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2A6JQVO5I5SLR", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "FOX", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "Start noticing when you watch TV and see radio stations, or professionals at work to the headphones they are wearing, and you will see this pair more than any other.Great headphones for voice-over work.The only thing I don't like about them, (which might actually be a plus for other people) is that the 1/4 inch plug unscrews to reveal a tiny 1/8 inch plug (used by portable walkman type radios)  No professional would ever have a need for the tiny plug, so instead, they should have wired a 1/4 plug, and they could have thrown in an adaptor to go down to 1/8 inch, but now when using 1/4 inch, it is always going through the weak contacts of an adaptor all the time, rather than a solid hard wire.I suppose you could always cut off the plug and hardwire another one to it.  But so far, no problems, so it stays as is.The plugs are the gold type, so less chance for corrosion over time.Good highs and lows for headphones.The best set of headphones I ever had were a pair made by Koss, and sold by Radio Shack called the Pro-60s that were only around $59, but they discontinued those many years ago.  The foams would always wear away into dust after a while too, but when compared to the expensive Senheisers with the yellow foams, everyone I let try mine who had the Senheisers, liked the Pro-60s better and ended up getting a pair too.  (I know I am going to lose a lot of credibility right away with some people when they read the words \"Radio Shack\" but keep in mind these were made by KOSS, and were KOSS headphones.)Don't have a set of those anymore to compare with these, but unlike the Senheisers, that I never liked at all, these Sony 7506 headphones do a great job.And they are real comfortable, which is a big plus when you have to wear them for hours, like you do sometimes in broadcasting.This is the most common set of headphones used in radio and television stations today.From what is available on the market today, I wouldn't get any other set.I have a theory about those complaining about the \"low end\" on these, as to me they are clean and sound just fine.However, I have an idea why some people might be saying what they do, the source they are feeding thier headphones are possibly causing the problem.  These can only sound as good as what you connect them to!In fact, after hearing my set in my studio, a friend really liked how great they sounded and wanted a set for boombox listening.  Well, when we connected them to the boombox, the headphones suddenly sounded awful and muddy with no highs at all.  Thanks to the cheap $100 boombox and it's low quality amplifier!Connect these headphones to a good studio headphone amp, or a good Denon stereo, and most people should have no complaints to the sound they can produce.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Industry Standard Headphones", "unixReviewTime": 1108857600, "reviewTime": "02 20, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A354C8PVZR8852", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "Jonathan Lee", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "Pros:First I'd like to point out that these headphones most definitely live up to the \"studio-standard\" name it's been given. The audio response is very well balanced: no piercing highs, no enveloping mids, no muddy/overpowering bass. Every single nuance is represented with pristine clarity, and when people say that you'll hear everything with these headphones, they mean it.To the people worrying about the absence of bass due to these being studio-monitoring headsets, the bass is, without a doubt, there in full presence. If you're used to hearing muddy sounding bass or music drenched in low-end sloppiness, you'll be surprised to hear how warm and how articulately the MDR-7506 reproduces bass, yet still managing to hit the listener with such a convincing punch.The high end is of course a pleasure to listen to. The high notes are crystal clear and do not show any signs of being artificially stressed or represented, giving a very silky smooth sound.As for the midrange? One fear of buying headphones is that you end up with hollow sounding music due to the lack of a solid defined midrange, but the midrange is one more thing to compliment about the 7506's. From prominent male vocals to snares, nothing ever seems overpowered, and yet it manages to fill the space with a full rich sound.Overall, the combination in sound from all the spectrums produces a very unbiased enjoyable harmony to the ears. As I listen to all types of music genres, from ballads to rock, classic to RnB, and pop to techno, I have yet to find a genre that these heaphones fail to reproduce with exceptional fidelity.And did I mention these headphones are very comfortable? I've worn these close to half a day without my ears being fatigued. Many earbuds and headphones have the tendency to make ears hurt/sore after only a short session of listening. I would say I have bigger than normal sized ears and the large-diaphragm design, combined with the very soft leather-wrapped earpads, really helps in making the circumural design (wrapped around the ears as opposed to on top) work well. This also means that sound is sealed off very well, muffling sounds from the outside coming in, and from the music inside getting out. For example, these are the type of headphones you would want to carry with you to public places (bus rides, airplane trips) instead of headphones like the Sennheiser HD595's.Having had these headphones for 1-2 years already, the quality is still as good as when I got them, and I don't doubt that they will be any different for a long long while.Ultimately, with the price tag being conveniently under 100 USD, this is an excellent buy. Even in comparison with higher end headphones, the sound quality for the MDR-7506 is still ranked as the top in my charts, as well as many other people's. If you look closely at professional settings around the world (i.e. studio performances, behind-the-scenes movie sets, & radio stations), as I have started to notice recently, you will see this exact model appear time and time again for a very good reason.Cons:The only con I would like to point out is that the earpads do tend to wear out after prolonged use. Since they are very soft to the skin and thus are made from very fine material, they are subject to wear & tear. Though, replacement earpads are cheap, easy to find, and easy to install. In total, i've only had to replace the earpads once since I got the 7506's, and that's with the headphones going through daily abuse.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best Headhpones - Clear & Rich Sound, Awesome bass response!", "unixReviewTime": 1246233600, "reviewTime": "06 29, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "AVE2J7PNE0L9C", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "J. Parmelee", "helpful": [16, 17], "reviewText": "I used to have a pair of MDR 600s but after several months the padding wore away.I decided to get the professional model which are these.I also recently bought an extra pair of the V 600s for my new televison but in terms of how these compare to each other when played on a stereo I personally prefer the way the 7506 sound over the newer 600 model.I completely agree with the other reviewer who stated the better the source that you plug your headphones into the better they will sound.I own a Panasonic DVD player (which I use for both CDs and DVDs) plugged into a Sony stereo and they both have decent options for how you want your music to sound and they sound great.However I've also found that plugging them into different stereos that have higher equalizer levels that they sound even better. Right now I'm listening to a Yamaha stereo with a Blu Ray DVD player the sound (bass,treble and vocals) all sound completely beautiful and clear). Although these headphones are the same as they were about 20 years ago the newer and more modern stereos you can plug these into make a big difference. For one thing with the bass and treble both set in the middle you get a very accurate sound without distorting it in any way.Plus for those of you who like to use extra bass and treble boost you should also own these headphones. The natural sound is flat and even.Like another reviewer stated one of the best things about these headphones is that they sound more evenly toned than most other models and brands of headphones around the same price range.That means you can do your own tweaking with the bass and treble boost when you're just listening to music,tv,video games or movies for entertainment.I must admit when I listen to these for home use I almost always have the bass and treble at the same setting as each other and they sound great even at the flattest setting.The bass,treble and vocals still sound the most even when you don't use an equalizer. Close to all of the other headphones around the 100$ price range I've owned and tried are nowhere near as good at doing that as the Sony 7506.I must say one of my favorite Sony products that I ever had was a pair of 350Hs which are bookshelf speakers but I use these headphones all the time. They give off great volume without being painful to the ears or bothering other people too much when you have them on and listen to them at a pretty loud volume.Best of all when you wear them and listen to music it cuts down a lot of unwanted outside noise leaving just you and your music which is a must for when people are playing music on their speakers and you just want to hear your own.In my opinion these sound best when the I use the Direct Audio option which I believe is another way of saying how the studio engineers intended you to hear the album,movie,video game or tv show on DVD.Most of the time I don't even use an equalizer and I feel that these headphones give off enough great bass and treble sound without one.Try watching a scary movie like A Nightmare On Elm Street or an action packed movie such as The Matrix while listening to them with these headphones and the audio experience is much more intense and better sounding than many headphones around the 100$ price range.Try plugging these headphones into your stereo when playing video games like The Legend Of Zelda Ocarina Of Time,Resident Evil 4 and Super Smash Bros.Melee and you'll feel like you're a part of the action.These are about as universal as a set of headphones can be. Great for all your favorite music. Accurate and clear enough for classical music,easy listening and opera yet can be loud and heavy enough for classic rock,hard rock,rap,grunge,punk rock and heavy metal.From Bach to Black Sabbath, Mozart to Metallica and Celine Dion to Soundgarden these headphones work great with all great music.Like another reviewer said the bass sound these give sound as deep and as close to an  expensive subwoofer sound that you can get for this price.The treble sound is a lot clearer and better than most other headphones around this price range.The vocals come in clearer than pretty much all of the other instruments being these are referred to as the industry standard for television and movies.You do however notice all of the instruments clearer than most other headphones around the 100$ range.I am especially impressed with the way these headphones sound for live concert recordings. When I listen to albums like Kiss Alive! and Nirvana  MTV Unplugged In New York I feel like I'm actually up there close to the artists. For those of you who are accuracy addicts like I am if you're looking to see what it feels like to hear an album,a tape, a record, a tv show,a video game or even a movie the way it sounds in a studio the 7506s are your best bet.Clean crisp sound at an affordable price.These phones are built to last. While the ear pads may wear away you can order more pads online.The only negative thing I can say about these headphones is that while very comfortable they do feel a little awkward.When I wear them I have them adjusted to 11 and they arch right above my forehead.I wish they could sit back on my head a little farther which would make them even more comfortable. That is a minor complaint because these are the nicest fitting headphones I've ever had. They feel nice and snug without being too loose or too tight.These are great headphones and possibly the most popular set of headphones used in American recording studios.These are very popular with people who just want headphones for home entertainment and music listening as well and I'm simply in love with them.In terms of quality and performance the Sony 7506 headphones are a true classic and have withstood the test of time.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "A review from a big Sony fan.Best headphones Ive ever had.", "unixReviewTime": 1099094400, "reviewTime": "10 30, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A2O8OE08KQ234C", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "L. Topper", "helpful": [79, 90], "reviewText": "These headphones are very much worth the price.  I have approximately 20-30 high-end headphones.  I have spent as much as $900.00 for the top of the high-end headphones.  Each set offers different things that are wonderful.The Sony 7506 is no frills.  No leather covered earpads or aluminum fittings.  They fit snugly, but not as constrictive as Sennheiser 600 or 650.  They do not float on your head like the audiophile Audio-Technica models which are excellent.  The earpads fit on the ear rather than surrounding the ear like Audio-Technica.  The phones are closed back and achieve a very good seal as to outside noise.As far as sound, I cannot say that they are flat sounding.  They have an immediate sound stage.  You feel you are on stage with the musicians.  There is no sense of separation from the sources of the music.  The sound is very joyful and dynamic. They are very easily driven by an Ipod.  I have not heard them with a headphone amplifier.  I suspect that a headphone amplifier might make them sound overripe if not on the low gain setting.Often times, I prefer an open-backed headphone because it seems to give you a sound that has more space in it.  I like the more subtle approach, but these headphones do not seem too close.On a technical note, the headphones appear to be made of plastic rather than lightweight metal.  The wires that go to each earcup of the headphones are exposed so that they could be pulled if you do not use them very carefully.  One thing you will note from the Audio-Technica ATH-AD700 (which is approximately the same price) is that the wires to each of the earcups is hidden inside frame of the headphones.  Additionally, I believe (although I am not sure)that the headphone frames of the Audio-Technica ATH-AD700 are metal with metal fittings.  I cannot comment on how long the Sony headphones will last because I have only owned the 7506 for a month or so.  At the same price, you might want to consider the Audio-Technica ATH-AD700 or the Grado SR-80.In short, if you are not a fanatical collector of headphones and only want to purchase one pair, this is an excellent choice.  By the way, by having more than one set of headphones, you in effect have several different stereos--each sounding rather different than the other.  To achieve sound of this caliber from speakers, you would have to spend thousands of dollars to get the quality of sound a listener with good headphones can get from an Ipod featuring huge memory and portability.  Lastly, you will not burden everyone around you in your family with having to listen to the same music you are listening to your music.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Can't beat the performance for the price", "unixReviewTime": 1200614400, "reviewTime": "01 18, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A2A7THBRZ2OXWW", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "Michael Costa", "helpful": [14, 15], "reviewText": "Absolutely the best pair of headphones for the money. They sound so good, that I've gone back to listening to CDs at home from start to finish, like I'm watching a movie. An amazingly wide spectrum of audio separation, and crystal clear.I also tried these on my iPod, just to see what it would sound like, and you can hear where the MP3s/AACs die and distort at certain peaks when it comes to audio range. That's how clear these are. These are best paired with CD, SACD and DVD audio.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Amazing!", "unixReviewTime": 1189468800, "reviewTime": "09 11, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1AAZRONQL3QUN", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "P. B. \"pablo\"", "helpful": [14, 17], "reviewText": "*edit update *i feel compelled to update after a week of burn in and experimentation ( again i, in no way, pretend to be an 'audiophile' -however, i am not completely without some background re soundafter they have opened up a bit, i STILL think they are a poor poor choice for relaxing, passive listening.  i believe that while they are very very very clear, they are also a tad harsh and brittle in the highs, although sibilance is minimal.i think that IF, and that is a big IF, but IF you find the right disc ( with the right mix on it ), and have a very good source, you can hit a magical sweet spot with these.  i still maintain it takes a bit of work to get there though.  i still think i am pretty close to spot on when i say that these are stunning for monitoring and mixing ( maybe a little less on the latter ), but the interesting thing is that they will absolutely force you to consider the frequencies and colors of the sources you are using.  you will NOT enjoy these with low quality mp3's.  IF you have a good soundcard, or an amp, and have a properly mixed cd, you can hit an amazing sweet spot.  just don't think these are right for casual listening.  anyway my 1 cents worth on this update.....i am writing this review from the perspective of someone who is NOT an 'audiophile,' an 'elitist,' nor someone who pretends to hear things they don't, just a moderately interested listener with a bare minimum of mixing experience ( digidesign )....regarding these headphones sound, well, i can pretty much suggest the following 3 issues, provided you have any hearing whatsoever....1.  you WILL learn to use the EQ settings on your equipment, you will be forced to, or you WILL have ear and brain fatigue before long2.  you will need to have a pretty good 'source' and equipment both, to enjoy these phones, they will make poorly encoded flac and mp3 files sound VERY bad, in other words, they will EASILY show you how bad ( or good ) the encoding was3.  you will need to allow, i would say, 20 or 30 hours of burn in to get them to open up....just my opinion, not worth much i suppose, but goodness, these things are NOT meant for just passive listening....you just about canNOT passively listen to these...are they clear?  yes.  do they represent the recording? yes.  is the bass controlled? yes.  is the bass 'boomy?'  NO THANK GOODNESS.However, there is not any 'polishing' of the music, and unless you EQ each disc, in conjunction with your equipment, i don't think you will enjoy long listening periods with these.  You will soon hear things that will drive you crazy.  They are AWESOME for teaching your ears to discern different mixes, frequencies and flavors of the disc, but it will soon wear you out.  GREAT for reference, for mixing, for analysis, not very enjoyable at all for relaxed listening.  Know the purpose you have for your headphones before you purchase these.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "puzzled...REALLY puzzled by these reviews, these are 'monitors'", "unixReviewTime": 1359417600, "reviewTime": "01 29, 2013"}
{"reviewerID": "AOC6CQ1MHA8UD", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "P. Taegel", "helpful": [13, 15], "reviewText": "I used to be a professional cameraman for LOAD Media, and these were the headphones we used.  They're not as stylish as some of Sony's consumer studio phones, but they're sturdier and sound terrific.  They're the best pair of phones to be had for around a hundred dollars.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Headphones", "unixReviewTime": 1120608000, "reviewTime": "07 6, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A8O2E6UBLWWFM", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "Quick Smart", "helpful": [15, 17], "reviewText": "Those complaining about weak bass and high end with these should realize Sony designed these for voice work.  They are used by field engineers and studio engineers when working on film and videos.  Being tuned to voice range, portable design, and excellent isolation make them a favorite for field audio pickup.I've been using them for three years and they are a workhorse set.Highly recommended.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "best in class", "unixReviewTime": 1107129600, "reviewTime": "01 31, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2L7WYA5OENV03", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "Reticuli", "helpful": [10, 18], "reviewText": "Same model as the V6, but blue stickers instead of red and gold-plated instead of nickel on the plug.  Oh, and the 7506 has the parts diagram on the box.  The 7509 (nine, not six) actually sounds flatter, but not as controlled.  The -6 model has an anomaly at around the 8khz range (or something) that really bugs my ears.  This peaky perhaps delayed resonance energy I think might give people the impression that the headphones have better resolution than they actually do.  To me they don't exactly sound smooth up there...kind of crunchy or harsh.  I wish Sony would use better materials for the earpads, since they tend to eventually disintegrate fairly easily from sweat, sun, benzoyl peroxide, or even ocean air.  Cheap enough to replace, though.  While this headphone certainly is a standard piece of equipment used in monitoring microphone feeds, it is not how music was necessarily meant to be heard.  You would never want to do the final mix of a song using this headphone, and I don't think studio users would claim that.  They do adequately cover all the frequencies without distorting, get more comfortable over time, and are extremely durable (besides those earpads).  I can understand how someone previously content with iPods and cheapo earphones can suddenly have their mind blown when they first listen to these connected to a quality source.  I can also understand new engineers and sound professionals wanting to have this \"standard\".", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "They're o.k.", "unixReviewTime": 1109203200, "reviewTime": "02 24, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3IRJT9J0C6R9Y", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "R. John", "helpful": [11, 29], "reviewText": "If you want closed design and very comfortable headphones, these are great. I was greatly disappointed with these. I tried breaking them in for over 100 hours.Sound is indeed very clear but the depth is non-existing.I have them currently connected through a 4 channel headphone amp. I have my Senn 555 and 650 connected as well. I use a HK AMP reciever.Music is just too bright on the Sony.If you are only used to earbuds you will not know the difference.So if you listen to hip hop, jazz, rock like dire straits, floyd, you will not like these headphones.If you like all the goodness with depth (bass) try the SennsI see a lot of musicians using these, while recording, looking for flaws, mixing. Well it might be great for them but for rest of us who need to listen and enjoy our music, these are not it.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Very poor Bass response, try Sennheiser 555 instead", "unixReviewTime": 1222214400, "reviewTime": "09 24, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A3D0A45555K1DB", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "Ronald E. Donofero \"TLC Yoda\"", "helpful": [77, 89], "reviewText": "This is the first time that I've left a product review of any type, but I just felt that I had to....I'm not an expert in audio, but I DID get tired of less expensive headphones just not living up to my expectations.These Sony headphones are worth every penny.  First, they have plenty of volume - something lesser headphones lack.  Sometimes I just wanna ROCK - I want it LOUD.  Most headphones dis-appoint on that.So - I bought these because I read a review saying that they had higher volume at lower settings.  Not only am I pleased with the volume (even when only connected to my ipod!), but the sound quality is STUNNING.FANTASTIC Bass - You'd SWEAR that there is a sub-woofer operating somewhere, and the highs are all there.  VERY impressive dynamic range.Ok - I'll stop being a salesman for Sony.  Let's just say that I was impressed enough to leave my FIRST product feedback.  Buy these headphones, you will NOT be disappointed.Ron (yoda)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Oh My Gawd is an understatement!", "unixReviewTime": 1195430400, "reviewTime": "11 19, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A6FIAB28IS79", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "Samuel Chell", "helpful": [31, 36], "reviewText": "These were recommended to me after I gave a mixed review to the Sony MDR-V600s.  I've never been as impressed by my V-600's as the Sony MDR-V6 phones that I lost.  The earlier pair seemed trimmer, lighter, with a \"cleaner\" sound--no gratuitous boosting of the bass.  My impression is that, although still being sold, Sony's support for the MDR-V6 is minimal and that their closest equivalent is the MDR-7506, not the V600s.  The 7506's sound less bass heavy and feel less constricting than either the V600s or MDR-V700's.  In fact, the specs indicate an even lighter weight and a shorter cord (best for radio announcing) than the MDR-V6 phones.  And it doesn't hurt that they're available through Amazon Prime--which is not the case with MDR-V6's.  It looks like my confidence in the pair was contagious--it's now practically the only set of headphones we use at our NPR radio station.Don't be surprised if upon first listening to these you're unimpressed.  And be even less surprised if upon exchanging the 7506's for a pair of V600's or V700's your initial reaction is one of satisfaction, even momentary exuberance.  The bass is far more prominent, the sound is fuller, fatter, more engulfing--the overall effect is simply \"heightened.\"  Stay with them for at least 15 minutes, now go back to the 7506's--and don't be too surprised if you completely revaluate your initial impression.  That's all it took for me to realize that Oscar Peterson's keyboard facility was not being accurately represented by the colorful sound of the V600's and V700's.  All of those 32nd and 64th notes in the right hand were overly reverberant and \"doctored\" relevant to the 7506's, causing the piano notes not only to sound overly brilliant but to \"bleed\" into one another.  Returning to the 7506's was like rediscovering \"reality\" and deciding that maybe \"virtual reality\" isn't all it's cracked up to be by today's gamers, audiophiles, and surround-sounders.Heavy bass attracts my interest only when you're talking a 4-6 pound largemouth.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Fire your doctor and take the \"natural cure.\"", "unixReviewTime": 1198281600, "reviewTime": "12 22, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3Q1WW2IOCO38Y", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "Steve \"Sunday\"", "helpful": [96, 122], "reviewText": "After very little total use I am looking for my third pair of pads in three years at a cost of $25 a set ($75 and counting). My old Sennheiser headphones/pads (that I still have) lasted 25 years! I only use them for watching Blu-Ray movies when the wife is asleep. They stay in a cabinet in a velvet bag. Pads started flaking off... I will (god only knows) maybe have to buy 10 more pairs in the future? Rrrrr... notice on Amazon replacement pads are bought really OFTEN... crazy.  Sony products are beautiful, but have a two year life span due to poor durability. If you are a fan of Sony products then fine, I was too. But two close friends who bought these on my recommendation have had the exact problem. Both also walked around work with black specks stuck to their faces not knowing what the source was...***UPDATE*** Please read the review of this Sony products' earcups at the following competitors' earcup replacements have been used by a dozen other owners (a suitable replacement there) at Beyerdynamic EDT 200 ear cushions. They state the problem better then I can... these Sony cups will disintegrate within a year's time (or two etc.). I bought a set of those new velour ones and am VERY happy almost two years now. Thanks folks for the kind update (those of you have expressed discontent at other forum members bringing up a valid and established issue are way off base! ... please just let the 'easy fix' be published instead of comment on your 'feelings' on hundred dollar headphones needing almost immediate replacement)  ... take care all you wonderful other Amazon update people who have helped and assisted with this issue!UPDATE June/2014 ... The left channel went out on these earphones long ago, binned. I have since purchased Grado, have not looked back once. I have disabled ALL Amazon alerts, so to those of you sane persons... best of luck with your purchase. To any of those who would state that their feelings about a product are superior to others, my wife says: these men were abused as children, are still children, have never truly experienced love... we should pray for them... and be thankful someone else has to wipe up all the venomous spittle. *whew*", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Earpads will need replacement!", "unixReviewTime": 1298851200, "reviewTime": "02 28, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A2YHU2LV32CKNO", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "Todd Bradley", "helpful": [12, 13], "reviewText": "These headphones are my favorites of any I've tried, and definitely the best in this price range.  I've had a pair for about a decade, and am just about to buy another pair.  They sound very clear and fit great.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "my favorites", "unixReviewTime": 1091318400, "reviewTime": "08 1, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A1F9Z42CFF9IAY", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "T. Tom", "helpful": [23, 33], "reviewText": "These are great headphones for the money. This model is what a lot of pros use in recording studios and on movie locations, etc. But the earpads are totally faulty; they don't last very long and will just split open, which is really annoying. I had to replace them at least once a year, at additional cost and frustration. While you can buy replacement ear pads it is really a pain to install them. Sony simply needs to make more durable ear pads.These headphones look cool and provide fairly good isolation and good sound quality over the entire frequency range.For the price, these headphones are fairly comfortable (but not the most comfy headphones available), and they sound pretty good although I've certainly heard better. There is little to no sound leakage and they provide good isolation in a foldable design that looks cooler than most other headphones. I would say these are good entry-level monitoring headphones (for audio engineers, DJs, etc.). For music lovers, they are certainly usable but you won't get that 'tickle me ears' type of 'Wow!' feeling from the sound out of these like with some other higher end headphones.  Also, these aren't that comfortable especially for long periods of time because the ear pads are a bit too small and press my earlobes and since they are a closed design, my ears get hot and sweaty after a while of wearing them; not a good thing.I've moved on to other more comfy headphones and am in general a lot happier now although I didn't have any complaints with the sound out of these Sonys.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Good value but faulty annoying earpads", "unixReviewTime": 1206576000, "reviewTime": "03 27, 2008"}
{"reviewerID": "A70YGMFQTPYEC", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "Victor \"Bluetooth Rocks\"", "helpful": [11, 15], "reviewText": "There is really not much to write home about.It is exceptional professional gear designed, built to deliver great sound quality and to last for a long time.Some people use them for decades (predecessor MDX-V6) and never get tempted to replace them with anything else.The packaging is very interesting too - it looks like you are going to buy a piece of precious jewelry.Many people have many personal preferences which sometimes have not much to do with author intentions how music supposed to sound.In my opinion: this headphones produce sound as close as it may get to author original intentions, considering the fact that chances author used very same headphones to mix his/her masterpiece are pretty good. All genius things tend to be simple, plus these headphones are pretty affordable too.Another thing to consider, the best way to find headphones that match your personal taste is to use near buy Pro-Audio music store that has bunch of great ones hooked up on the display. Just ask for a tune and try them all. You will not be disappointed later as you will know exactly what you are about to buy. Prices seem to be consistent on Pro gears and discrepancies are very small.Good Luck!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I glad I asked and listen to a Professional", "unixReviewTime": 1135036800, "reviewTime": "12 20, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2XPDQ3CMATK67", "asin": "B000AJIF4E", "reviewerName": "William H III", "helpful": [212, 227], "reviewText": "If you've read down far enough to find this review, you probably already know that these are the professional studio monitor headphones used by pretty much anyone with a mixing board - from Celine Dion to Slipknot, from NFL broadcasts to The Howard Stern Show, these are the way most recording artists and studios hear every note and nuance. If you're not already convinced, read on.Most new 7506 owners are awed by their headphones before even hearing them, at least by the packaging. The headphones themselves rest on gently tousled silver silk behind a clear plastic window emblazoned with a large gold \"7506\". The presentation alone gives the potential buyer the feel of buying a giant engagement ring, but the theatrics end once you open the box. Getting down to business inside is a very serious schematic diagram documenting the complete parts and assembly list of the fifty or so pieces that go into making this single pair of headphones, a 1/8\" to 1/4\" adapter (the screw-on type, a must for live use), and a pleather carrying pouch.The 7506s are visually almost an anti-climax to the packaging. The design is very basic and straightforward without any tricks or frills, but simplicity is part of the appeal here. Every detail has been engineered to work simply and simply work. The steel band size adjustment snicks into place confidently at each numbered groove. Both earcups rotate vertically a full 180 degrees on their hinges with ease. The 1/8\" plug has an all-metal casing with a real rubber sleeve, as you'd find on actual pro audio music cables. The more deeply you look into each element of the design, the more you'll appreciate how much Sony also looked into it.Putting on the 7506s is also an easy affair, thanks to their eight ounce weight and modest profile. They're actually small enough that you could get away with wearing them in public, but you wouldn't hear much else - the closed design combined with cushy stuffed vinyl pads and secure, if not tailored, fit means the ambient sound isolation borders on noise-cancelling. The earcups can also be folded upwards against the inside of the headband for portability - so portable in fact, that you could place a folded set of 7506s in a child's lunchbox *with room to spare*.But if ever a good thing came in a small package, it's the big sound of these headphones. Ruler flat response, deep sound stage, and sniper tight accuracy means every aspect of the source signal comes to life and is revealed in full. Bass notes come through with such authority that you find yourself occasionally making note of your feet, to see if you can feel the bass in the floor. Instrument placement is at once obvious - parsing out where each instrument and sound is in a mix is instantly clear. Previously hidden and obscure sounds and passages in various tracks stand out so well that entire songs are made new again. There just isn't any sound that the 7506s can't reproduce exactly as you'd hear it with your own ears.Those of you who like to tailor your sound with extra helpings of bass or volume have also been accommodated - On the low end, using even the most basic bass boost the 7506s can faithfully reproduce subwoofers-in-the-trunk neighborhood-wide bass *in your head*. I wouldn't have believed it if I hadn't heard it myself. Volume-wise, a low impedance matched with a high power handing capacity means these headphones are easily driven by an iPod or Walkman, yet can easily achieve volume levels that could liquefy your inner ear without even the implication of distorting. Plainly speaking, whatever you want the 7506s to do, they'll do it with ease.Keep in mind that revealing everything requires a good source. Plugging these into a cheaper portable or poorly EQ'd equipment will quickly make any and all limitations evident. This includes cheap computer audio hardware and low frequency/bandwidth MP3s. Uncompressed file formats suddenly seem a lot more practical when you can hear the constraints of highly compressed MP3s.\"Audiophile\" sites and reviews have had a hard time coming to grips with these headphones. Being that they're a consumer brand product available at any common music store at a fraction of the price of most other high-end models, the \"elite\" image and price tag that goes along with it just aren't a part of the 7506's game. It's reflected in some reviews, some saying they're \"too bassy\", others \"too bright\", but how exactly is this possible if you're using a decent source and the same headphones the musicians/engineers used to create the recording? You're hearing the music exactly as it was heard in the studio, exactly as it was meant to be heard. Only the 7506s can make that promise.If you're creating any kind of recordings and find yourself crossing your fingers that you're hearing it as it's actually being recorded, or just a music lover who feels it's time to hear the music as it was meant to be heard, you're only a hundred dollars away from the Sony MDR-7506. Five stars and my highest recommendation to Sony's masterpiece.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Standard", "unixReviewTime": 1147651200, "reviewTime": "05 15, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3C5NU6LVDU020", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "A. Wirtanen", "helpful": [165, 175], "reviewText": "First, I am going to discuss the options for noise canceling headphones. Then, I am going to go into detail about the Bose QC2 headphones.If you are looking for a great pair of high-end traditional headphones that cup your ear, you are looking in the right place; the Bose QuietComfort 2s are for you! If you are an audiophile (probably not if you are considering buying something from Bose) then look at the Sennheiser HD 650s ($400). If you don't have a large budget and want reasonable noise-canceling, then look at the Sony MDR-NC6s ($35). If you like the supra-aural style of the Sony MDR-NC6s, but want a higher quality headphone, then wait for the Bose QuietComfort 3s ($349, release date June 15, 2006). If you are looking for noise canceling while operating landscaping equipment and OK audio performance, then look at John Deere's Noise Canceling Headset ($89). If you are looking for a really lightweight supra-aural noise canceling headset, then consider the Sennheiser PXC 300 ($150). Finally, if you want noise-caneling ear canal headphones, then the Etymotic Research ER6i's ($85) are for you.The QC2 comes in two flavors: champagne and silver (2005). The older champagne version has a problem with the headband breaking. If the headband breaks during your warranty period, Bose will send you a brand new pair of silver QC2s. The only other major difference between the two flavors is that the silver headphones work with Bose's cell-connect accessory. The cell-connect connects your compatible cellphone (there's a list on Bose.com) to the QC2s and has a mic. I personally don't know why one would need this accessory... but it's a neat add-on. I have used the cell-connect and QC2s with my Motorola E815 with no problems (other than the fact that I wasn't sure how loud to talk).The QC2s shine when worn on airplanes, trains, and public transit. They are also very good in the office to drown out the hums of air conditioning and computers. THEY do not make it completely quiet. High-frequency sounds such as people talking are NOT canceled out.I find the QC2s to be very comfortable. Make sure to test them out before you buy them, because the circumaural design is not for everyone. The headphones come with everything you need--1/4\" and 3.5mm connectors, a great semi-hard shell case, and more. The strap for the case is not included with the silver headphones. The earcups on the headphones swivel to flatten and fit inside the case. An iPod can easily fit inside the case, and an iPod Nano can reportedly fit inside the small clear velcro case that initially holds \"customer courtesy cards\" (which are business cards that you can give to people that ask about your QC2s).Make sure to stock up on AAA batteries for the QC2s. The QC3s use a custom Bose rechargable lithium battery instead. Battery life is good, and a light will blink on the side of the headphones when your battery is low.Overall, I'm very satisfied with my QC2s, and I think other people are too. I even saw someone wearing them while driving! (Don't do that).", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great for Planes, Trains, and Automobiles", "unixReviewTime": 1149897600, "reviewTime": "06 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3LJ21OAEIWOK5", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "Carter Fields", "helpful": [11, 12], "reviewText": "I use these for blocking out noise at the office, and then take them home for gaming.  They are very versatile and the sound quality is very good.  They do a great job of blocking out external noise, that dog barking, that guy in the next cubical that has to yell into his phone, or that guy that has to smack his lips when he's chewing gum.  Sometimes its just enough to put them on, flip the power switch and relax, without actually hooking them up to listen to something.  I am very comfortable wearing them from 8am to 5pm, while it would be nice if my ears had a little more ventilation, but that would defeat the purpose of the noise canceling.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Headphones", "unixReviewTime": 1121212800, "reviewTime": "07 13, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3JZ7ZC39PM2KH", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "Dan Eppinger", "helpful": [25, 25], "reviewText": "I purchased the Sennheiser 250's about two months ago after reading many glowing reviews by users.Frankly, I do not understand how anyone can even begin to compare these with the Bose Quiet Comfort 2's.The Sennheisers reproduce practically no bass whatsoever and the treble is exceedingly and unnaturally bright. The sound is basically like the 200's with added noise cancelling.Anyway, after taking two flights with the Sennheisers, I decided to spring for the Bose. They are superb! Noise cancellation is excellent, comfort is top notch, and the sound rivals any headset that I have tried...and I HAVE tried the Grados, etc. The Grados sound great for about 20 minutes. After that time, the sound is overridden by the pain on my ears, due to the tight fit of the Grado's.One must,however, treat the Bose with kid gloves. I imagine that part of this is due to the fact that Bose wants to keep them lightweight and comfortable. But then, would you wear your Rolex, while fixing the plumbing in your home?As a musician, I can assure you that you will not find a better pair of headphones than the Bose. I understand that the price is rather high; but when there is no real competition out there for excellent noise cancelling phones, a manufacturer can charge all that traffic will bear.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Bose Quiet Comfort 2 vs Sennheiser 250-NO CONTEST", "unixReviewTime": 1153612800, "reviewTime": "07 23, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3CU99GVHVBZ8N", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "Daniel Luechtefeld", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "As other reviewers have stated, the headband is flimsy. I bought mine in December 2004, less than 9 months ago. The headband began cracking a few months ago and today an earpiece completely snapped off. That this thing is now held together with Scotch tape is unacceptable for something so expensive.Noise reduction is great, and sound quality ok. I frequently wear these coupled with a pair of foam earplugs to completely block out the world. Even in this configuration, with the input jack set to High I can listen to iTunes with no problems.UPDATE: Bose replaced them in accordance with the warranty. Shipped the broken ones off and the replacements arrived in about two weeks.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "They  broke", "unixReviewTime": 1125360000, "reviewTime": "08 30, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AVN07UUJUE9U5", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "David Gibson", "helpful": [24, 31], "reviewText": "These headphones sound good at first but (a) they're very fragile and (b) only really cancel out white noise, making the more annoying sounds (e.g. people talking on a train) even more annoying.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "don't be deceived", "unixReviewTime": 1102118400, "reviewTime": "12 4, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A4IL0CLL27Q33", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "D. Brennan", "helpful": [31, 31], "reviewText": "As a consultant I traveled 2-3 days per week. I spent a lot of time listening to one-sided cell phone conversations, inane chatter, jet engines, train noise and bad music in coffee shops and airport concourses. I purchased the Bose Quiet Comfort headphones right before I departed on a 5 day, 3 city trip.From the moment I put them on I knew this was a breakthrough product. Sure - I noticed something akin to pressure on my ears but that sensation passed in a few minutes. It's just like getting used to wearing a watch - you end up not noticing it at all after a short time. What has not passed is the joy in letting the rest of the world just fall away so that I can get some down time while traveling.Not only was the background noise from the plane's engines gone, but I could actually turn the volume down on my Creative Zen Vision much lower than would be the case with other headphones because the music wasn't competing with the roar of the engines.The same with the volumn while watching movies - I didn't have to crank up the volume just to hear what was being said. I could even hear the dialogue of movies played on my laptop and those played by the airline. I cannot emphasize this point enough - for the first time ever, I could actually hear music and videos without cranking up the volume to the max - saving my ears from damage as well as avoiding dirty looks from my fellow passengers.On my honeymoon, my wife and I both brought along a pair. Being able to distance ourselves from all the background noise really did increase the relaxation factor and allowed us to travel 12 hours each way in relative peace. Speaking of honeymoons - this item would be a GREAT wedding gift. There is nothing worse than to spend your time enroute to some fabulous tropical destination for your honeymoon listening to the kids behind you scream while their father snores away.Even at home, my wife will sometimes wear her headphones while reading. It completely eliminates any noise from the television in the next room.Contrary to what one other reviewer has stated, the sound from these headphones is anything but distorted. I find that I can hear subtleties in music that I cannot hear over my home entertainment system. The fact that I can still hear these subtleties while in a loud environment is an added bonus.You probably will not wear these headphones while in the gym (though I have actually seen people wearing them while on the treadmill at my local gym - the same type of people that wear designer workout shorts). There are also times where you don't need noise reduction. For these times, I have inexpensive headphones. I would not however deduct any points from Bose for making a specialty set of headphones just because they are not perfect for all situations. I would not take points off my favorite leather jacket because I can't wear it to the beach in July.Yes, these things are expensive. But if you feel the need to shield yourself from the pervasive noise of the modern world, there really is no substitute on the market.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Several times the cost of competing products. Then again it's not much of a competition.", "unixReviewTime": 1147132800, "reviewTime": "05 9, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A91W4Q9O8NR0B", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "Derek S.", "helpful": [20, 22], "reviewText": "I've owned the QC2s for nearly two years and put about 150,000 airmiles on my set. I would have highly recommended them to anyone, but now that I know about sound isolating earbuds, I laugh at the people still using the QC2 or QC3 headphones. Sound isolating earbuds like the Shure E4C are significantly cheaper (if you shop around), provide vastly better noise supression, you can easiy sleep in them on the airplane, and are nowhwere near as bulky as the QC models.My advice is to skip noise cancelling phones from anyone, and investigate noise isolation earbuds. Vastly superior in every way, and less money.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Good, but better cheaper options out there", "unixReviewTime": 1164240000, "reviewTime": "11 23, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2VJ80PM1G00QV", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "drkhimxz", "helpful": [17, 21], "reviewText": "I will just add my voice to the others who have found these headphones flimsy. As has been described by others, in normal use the extension piece broke.Incidentally, with the original of the Comfort series, the material problems were different but equally annoying.I have purchased and tried all the top rated, and some other, brands and not had the same problems.As to comfort and noise reduction, I will leave that to the frequent flyer.I agree that each person will react differently to the kind of pressure exerted, the length of time used, the customary sound to be reduced, and, I suppose, as one reviewer put is, psychological responses.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "good electronics, lousy construction,.", "unixReviewTime": 1153094400, "reviewTime": "07 17, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AT6CZDCP4TRGA", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "Eduarrdo Nietzsche", "helpful": [15, 35], "reviewText": "First off, let me say how happy I am that *I* didn't waste three hundred freakin' dollars on this total POS.No, the hopeless sucker was my EX-GIRLFRIEND, who bought me one of these for my birthday!  However since she bundled in a nice long 10 minute wet kiss with the gift, how could a gentleman possibly refuse, LOL?  Plus since she is now married to a very wealthy man, I figure it wasn't really *her* money she just wasted...in any case it's the thought that counts, right?Well I have to say, these headphones at least manage to mostly do ONE thing they claim (unlike most Bose products which are total frauds): cancel out noise by sending out a neutralizing frequency.  No, you don't get anything resembling dead silence but you do get about a good 50% reduction, it kind of sounds like when you have a bad cold and your ears are stuck, know what I mean?Now where these headphones positively stink is if you ever, God help you, attempt to listen to MUSIC through them.  Then the infamous Bose Effect (\"No highs, no lows, it must be Bose.\") takes over: really hollow vocal reproduction, muffled highs, muddy and atrophied bass.  I listend to my Norah Jones CD with these things and for a minute there thought it was some totally different female vocalist...one wearing a neck brace and a half dozen clothespins on her nose that is!I also agree with the other reviewers who claimed that these headphones produce a very unpleasant physical pressure on the ears, and that the construction looks like an accident begging to happen.Oh well, shouldn't look a gift horse in the mouth, right?  Even if it's a (cough! gag! hack!) Bose horsey.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "what an atrocious RIP-OFF!!!", "unixReviewTime": 1116288000, "reviewTime": "05 17, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AM765S5A37QB2", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "fuzzyshrapnel", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "These are amazing.  Everything sounds so nice and quiet.  However, the volume can't get very loud on these, so whatever you're listening to sounds quiet too.  But this isn't really a problem because it's very very clear.  Probably saves my ears.  I got my father a set of these for fathers' day and he complains that his ears are too big and the headphones feel slightly uncomfortable.  But he has long ears, so I don't think this would be a problem for most people.  Some people complain about the pressure, and the first time I put these on I really hated it, but after that I barely even notice it.  These are just great.  If you want noise-cancelling, these are worth the money.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Good stuff", "unixReviewTime": 1091145600, "reviewTime": "07 30, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A6EFPNEQVKUUJ", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "George Woodard \"His Geekness\"", "helpful": [32, 34], "reviewText": "I got these last December-05. The molded plastic that holds the ear cups onto the headband started to crack (right at the L/R labels).  They eventually crumbled and fractured, causing the cups to fall off.  I taped one side up and the other failed as well.  I have no doubt that if I replace these, the same thing will happen.  My complaint is for $300 I expect something other than soft plastic holding these together at the stress points.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Nice sound, poor construction.", "unixReviewTime": 1119225600, "reviewTime": "06 20, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1Y8IUMN7TBKS", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "Groovy Vegan", "helpful": [17, 17], "reviewText": "This review only evaluates the noising canceling properties of the Bose headphones, not the acoustic properties when connected to music sources.The Bose ad claims that these headphones are like a \"volume control to the world\" where you can turn the volume \"way way down.\"  I wish!  I'm wearing the Bose headphones as I type this and can hear leaf blowers and a neighbor's loud music quite well.  There's a slight reduction in sound with the headphones, but no more than with a pair of properly inserted disposable ear plugs from the drug store.  However, when I double up the drug store plugs with the Bose, I get a significant, but nowhere near a \"dramatic\" reduction in sound.Bose invented these headphones primarily for airplanes and that's where they shine.  I never realized how noisy an airplane is, even away from engines, until I put on my Bose headphones and found the noise to be significantly reduced.  The headphones did next to nothing about reducing the noise of the shrieking kid in the seat behind me however.  They mostly work on the airplane engine frequency, which is nowhere near the shrieking kid frequency.  Double plugging with the drugstore earplugs helps far more with noisy children than either alone.BTW, I find these headphones, which are padded at the ears and the top of the head to be quite comfortable for noise reduction headphones.  I have an older pair of noise reduction headphones from a different manufacturer which feel like your head is in a vice.If you're buying these headphones for noise reduction, I only recommend them for airplane engine noise.  I recommend taking a spare pair of charged rechargable batteries with you in case your batteries die in flight.  You can use these headphones to plug into the airplane sound system to watch the movie, but if you're in coach, the airline will generally charge you for using their sound system.In my experience, with noises other than airplane engines, they are only your \"volume reduction to the world\" if you double plug with drugstore earplugs.  As for that \"mute button to the world,\" unless you are already hard of hearing, forget about it, they don't even come close.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Far from your \"mute button to the world\" but great for airplane engine noise.", "unixReviewTime": 1139529600, "reviewTime": "02 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AYMD77ITD15PT", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "G. Ware", "helpful": [14, 16], "reviewText": "I really didnt' want to spend $300 for a set of headphones but after trying the Bose QuiteComfort 2 at the Airport I was sold. On my flight out I used them with my Ipod and my portable DVD player and they sounded great. I could actually hear my music and the movie without blowing my ears out with the regular earphones I used before. My purchase came with the free cd player as well. I didn't need it so I put it up on Ebay and sold it for forty two dollars. That little deal reduced my purchase price below $260.There might be cheaper noise cancelling headphones out there that are good but I'm happy with the Bose and that's what counts in the end.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Expensive but worth the money", "unixReviewTime": 1134864000, "reviewTime": "12 18, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A193UYYQABOEBK", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "InverseIQ", "helpful": [26, 34], "reviewText": "I was surprised to see so many reviews and more importantly, much more views by potential buyers. Since most people come to Amazon to buy product and read reviews, I thought i'll post some alternate products:1. Noise Cancelation: If noise cancellation is your ultimate goal, then the best for the task are(a) Etymotic Research.(b) Shure.(c) Ultimate Ear.Please be aware that the sound quality and isolation provided by these venerable headphones are leaps better than anything Bose could ever aspire, but the downfall is some of their models cost more than double (..Ultimate Ear costs $900 for instance).Some people say that Sennheiser Noise cancelation headphones are better, But I am not sure about that. [...] is a good place to start shopping and reading reviews.2. Simple Headphone: If noise Cancelation is not of importance, then the whole wold of good headphone open up to you like Grado, Sennheiser, Beyerdynamic, AKG, KOSS etc..One thing guarenteed, if you care to look around, then you will never buy a Bose which are worth less than half they are priced at and if u do spend that money Bose costs to get other Audiophile quality cans, then my email is above to personally thank me for guiding you the that way.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Other option to ponder", "unixReviewTime": 1117929600, "reviewTime": "06 5, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AMH8ONMMON40V", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "Japinder Singh", "helpful": [10, 11], "reviewText": "If you fly once a week on business and occasionally have to take long flights to the other coast or europe/asia, buy this rightaway. It is expensive but worth it. Lets you focus on the work, while flying. I never realized how tiring the airplane background noise is, till I bought this. And if you get a seat near the engines, it does become really noisy. Also, very useful, if U are sitting near a \"chatty\" passenger. I also use it while watching movies on my laptop and with my mp3 player. Comes with a nice case to store it, when not in use.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Buy it right away if you fly once a week", "unixReviewTime": 1101513600, "reviewTime": "11 27, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A3M2GOIB3HIXZD", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "JDiver \"You haven't lived until you've dived.\"", "helpful": [22, 26], "reviewText": "I've used the Bose QC1s, and enjoyed the Noise Reduction technology - basically, the unit creates an inverse-phase signal of continuous low frequency sounds to block the original noise. (Bose has produced NR headphones used by pilots for many years.) This works very well on continuous noise sources like aircraft engines, for example, while still allowing you to converse with your flight partner and hear cabin safety announcements. Sound reproduction was pretty good, comfort excellent(over the ear,) but I didn't like the little volume control and battery box on the long tangley cable that got in the way.The QC2 is a marked improvement over the QC1! Better quality audio, less &quot;white noise,&quot; lighter, fold down smaller (greater portability,) the single AAA battery lasts much longer and fits in one headphone unit - the cable connects to the other. On long \"redeye\" flights, I just use the headphone unit in the NR mode, no cable at all. There is a two-position volume switch on the cable plug that connects at the headphone - a bit inconvenient, and quite small (on American Airlines J and F class, the cable is hardwired, switch in &quot;high&quot; position, so you can not turn the volume down to background - it just quits!) The phone set comes in a handy protective semi-soft case with audio cable, extension, and adapters for different audio jacks.TO summarize: this headphone is very portable and comfortable, has good sound reproduction; the Noise Reduction is very effective in attenuating sources of continuous noise. Pricey, but if you fly a lot (115,000 miles first half of 2004,) or just want quiet respite from continuous noise sources, you will really like this unit - and, to my surprise, feel much more rested after a long flight.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Expensive - worth it: HUGE difference on long flights!", "unixReviewTime": 1090540800, "reviewTime": "07 23, 2004"}
{"reviewerID": "A29V754TP68LZL", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "J. Kelly", "helpful": [35, 36], "reviewText": "It's literally taken me months to decide which noise-cancelling headphones to purchase.  I foolishly flirted with a relatively inexpensive in-ear version by Panasonic - total waste of money.By reading reviews and road-testing the various products (where possible), I narrowed my choices to Sennheiser PCX300 and Bose QC2. I decided on the Bose, and here's why:1.  Unlike the PX300s, the QC2s have an unobtrusive mic battery setup, one AAA tucked neatly into the right earpiece.2.  The Bose only have one lead, whereas the Senns have two.  Less chance of getting them tangled.3.  The QC2s cover the entire ear, thereby further preventing noise intrusion, and leakage.  I also found this more comfortable than the Senns, which sort of *press up* against the ear.4.  I found the bass response more pronounced with the Bose and, I think, a little louder overall.5.  I also like the hard case that accompanies the headphones. I know it will fit neatly into the plane's luggage compartment on the back of the seat in front of me. There's room in it for the bits and pieces that come with the 'phones and also extra space for my vidpod, possibly an external battery pack.6.  I already own Bose products and know that they are of the highest quality, especially when it comes to innovation in sound reproduction.That about sums it up.  I've purchased the 'phones predominantly to use on domestic and international flights, but I'm slowly getting the feeling I'll be using them a little more often than that.I only bought the QC2s a few hours ago, and literally haven't been able to take them off my head - want to listen to my entire library anew.  So they are pricey, but I'm thinking worth the extra.BTW:  I rated the product 4 stars.  If the headphones were able to be used sans the NC, I would have given it 5.POSTSCRIPT:  I've had the headphones for approx a week now and have had the opportunity to use them on a Melbourne-Sydney return flight.  I have some further comments I'd like to make.1)  I used the QCs in the lounge before take-off, and I have to say I felt a bit awkward sitting or walking around with such *big* headphones on.  It's probably something I'll get used to in time.2)  In-flight, I felt my ears warm - not to the point of discomfort, but it was noticeable.3)  On the positive side, I put the phones on as soon as I was seated, turned the NC on, and immediately felt calmer.  I could still hear some discussion and announcements, but that general din (which you don't really notice until you have the means by which to cancel it) all but disappeared.  I think this alone is a big plus.4)  Listening to and watching my vidpod was an absolute pleasure. I found the sound level more than adequate, and on certain tracks had to actually dial the volume back slightly, especially when watching movies.So I guess the only thing I have to overcome is getting used to perhaps looking different with my *cans* on.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Worth the wait", "unixReviewTime": 1149897600, "reviewTime": "06 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1N3M1NGSM4UWM", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "John F. Krotzer", "helpful": [134, 148], "reviewText": "The sound was awesome - no question about it - but the headphones fell apart after 8 months.  The cheap plastic used to connect the ear pieces to the head piece cracked and eventually broke, and now a sharp piece of metal sticks into my head if I ever wear them.  I needed to tape them with hockey tape to hold them together.....I expect better for $300![Look in the product images for pictures of where they broke]", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Headsets Fall Apart", "unixReviewTime": 1132272000, "reviewTime": "11 18, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1Q4MNIUESQTBM", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "John Schultz", "helpful": [29, 32], "reviewText": "These headphones sound awesome. As long as you do not use them near: certain cellphones, wireless phones, or anything that is wireless. Some of these devices create unwanted sounds such as screeching, oscillating low beeps and other unwanted sounds. I was so disappointed when I received my official \"blowoff\" letter from bose with no resolution of the problem. But I have to admit, the sound quality (when not beeping) was unbelievable.I have noticed that some reviewers have commented on the bad noise cancelling ability, That is because the headphones have 2 settings, low and high levels of cancelling and by default they ship in the low setting. switch it to high and you won't hear much except your music. unless your near a cellphone, then you will hear beep-screeeeech-beep", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Sounds great, except around cellphones", "unixReviewTime": 1127088000, "reviewTime": "09 19, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3RUG8QEPN87R", "asin": "B000AP05BO", "reviewerName": "KentR \"Kentrda\"", "helpful": [13, 21], "reviewText": "My wife bought me a pair of Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones. It sounded nice and was comfortable, BUT, it wasn't $300 nice or $300 comfortable.  Additionally, I found that they would NOT work with a number of Bose amplifiers and components. They are designed primarily for use on planes.  I sent them back immediately and replaced them with a pair of Panasonic headphones for 1/5th of the price and the Panasonics' are just as comfortable and good sounding.  I believe that many people just tell themselves (and others') that the Bose headphones are great so that they can justify (in the own minds) spending so much for a headphone.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Way over priced", "unixReviewTime": 1125532800, "reviewTime": "09 1, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A28AOYX0UWTI66", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer \"Techno Geek\"", "helpful": [47, 48], "reviewText": "I already have the semi-Professional level Canon EOS 20 D of which I love very much but its weight and bulkiness did not encourage me to take candid shots wherever I go.So I researched a small portable digital camera that I could take with me. I was tossing between this A620 and the SD500 Elph.I chose the A620 based on features and the rave review that an online camera review did (dpreview dot com).I ordered it online and once I received it, I was surprised at its size (it would certainly help to see it in physical stores!) and it was not a shirt pocket camera that I was picturing. It could fit in my jacket pockets but I think it will rip my shirt pocket trying to stuff that thing in.I decided to keep it because it did take great pictures. That is the main function of a camera, right? Take good pictures!!!After getting a small camera case, the portability was not too bad after all. It is definitely much lighter than the Canon EOS 20D (and thousand dollar less to boot).But there is no question that I had been spoiled by Canon EOS 20D. The focusing was slower, and it took me longer to take shots. But definitely much faster than my Minolta Dimage 7 (5 megapixel) that I paid one thousand dollars at the local Sam's Club several years back.I found that the positive for this camera is that it takes great pictures with AUTO.I found that when I used the zoom lens inside a building with medium light, I did get some blurry shots but the Camera warned  with the shake symbol. It is nice that the camera warns  you. That tells me that instead of zoom, I should physcally come closer to the subject and then take pictures.I found that it is possible to turn off the flash (by changing the setting from AUTO to something else like LANDSCAPE). But invariably you will get blurry pictures in a medium light enviroment unless you take it with a tripod.The other thing that attracted me to this camera vs the other ones was that it used AA batteries. I mean, you can get AA batteries anywhere in the world! And with the ubiquitous rechargeable batteries, you are set! I have noticed that with my 2500 mAh rechargeable batteries I was able to take quite a few pictures, show off the results to folks on the flippable LCD screen and it was couple months before the battery was totally out. Which was NOT BAD at all!The fact that this camera uses SD chip is also a great feature. SD chip has come down in price trememdously in the past few days. I just got a 4 gig SD chip with 150 X speed for less than one hundred bucks with shipping and tax!!! One could get about 1000 pictures at the highest resolution!!! Ironically, SD chips are now cheaper than Compact Flash for slightly faster speed. I don't know how can they fit 4 gig in that small space...The video option is a Bonus extra for me and I thought it took surprisingly good video considering the size and the lens of the camera. In a dark room, it does not come out well. It needs bright light enviroment. So for a small camera that you can take videos...that is not too bad. Of course it will not be professional looking and all that...for that I have the Canon XL1S. But for special candid moments or unexpected situations, it is great to be able to get a video of something that is viewable on computer or TV.I do like this camera!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great portable digital camera", "unixReviewTime": 1148688000, "reviewTime": "05 27, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1O229NVVDJUX2", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "Anthony Pantliano \"The Photo Guy\"", "helpful": [46, 46], "reviewText": "I bought this camera to replace my digital Olympus C-4000.  So far I have not been disappointed.  The camera has a lot of features for the price, with aperture priority, shutter priority, and a full manual mode, it gives you more control than most point and shoot models.  It also has a 4x optical zoom based on the lens in the Powershot G6, and the macro mode can focus down to 0.4 inches. It is great that the camera runs on AA batteries, and has excellent battery life.  Photo quality has been terrific, with sharp, colorful pictures. The only drawbacks are a noisy zoom, some hard to push buttons, and more red-eye than I had with my Olympus.  The camera is not ultra light and compact but does have a nice grip and solid construction.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent Camera, A Great Value!", "unixReviewTime": 1129593600, "reviewTime": "10 18, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1HSYRJHWH8VHH", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "Barbara A. Blackburn \"JollyRB\"", "helpful": [47, 51], "reviewText": "This makes my 7th Digital camera in as many years.I've only had the camera for 3 days. Most of the other excellent reviews here have hit on the main bragging points so I won't bother repeating them.I would like to point out a few things I LOVE about his camera.It's fast. You hit the power button and BOOM. there's a beep, the lense pops out and it's read to take a picture within 2 or 3 seconds.ONe thing I hated about my Kodak Easy Share was that by the time I pulled out my camera and powered it oup to capture a great shot the moment was gone.This camera also seems to store pictures faster so you're ready for the next shot.Video quality is pretty amazing. I compared it to my full fledged Sony DigiCam and I'm impressed.You can't go wrong with this camera.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best Camera I've ever owned...", "unixReviewTime": 1130889600, "reviewTime": "11 2, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AMQ1MEG334SAP", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "Bigmac", "helpful": [17, 45], "reviewText": "I bought this camera after seeing the rave reviews for it on Amazon.  I figured a Canon camera, with 7.1MP and 4x optical zoom under $250- how could I go wrong.When the camera came I was disappointed with the small size of the screen- only 2\" versus most of the competitors that are 2.5\" and yes it does make a big difference in how the picture looks.  Big deal the lens swivels around, and after a day or so you will get tired of that.  It does nothing to actually help the camera.  And also if you look at the lens from the side it is hazy and lacks color, which is a sign of a cheap screen.Also notice this camera takes four large batteries whereas most of the competition takes only two.  These extra batteries make it almost impossible to fit this camera in your pocket and weigh the camera down.Most importantly I was disappointed with the optics of the camera.  4x zoom should come in clearer than what this camera delivers.  Objects only 30 feet away will come in faintly and will lack crispness.  One should not have to buy overpriced, proprietary lenses to take a good picture.  A better bet would be the Fuji Finepix with 9MP which is more portable and has much better resolution.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "A lot of flash, little sizzle", "unixReviewTime": 1151366400, "reviewTime": "06 27, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A10HMPPHWI3V0A", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "dddddsssss \"gggogogog\"", "helpful": [17, 17], "reviewText": "I've been an serious amateur (if that isn't an oxymornon) photographer since 1955. Four years ago, I went digital with an Olympus 3.2 megapixel Camedia. Love that camera, but started having problems (over-exposure in all modes, and contrast off especially in macro. After six months of study, I decided on the A620, and am moderately happy with my decision.I should explain that, no matter how much investigating you do, you'll never know if you made the right decision. When I bought the Olympus, the choices were limited to perhaps four 3+ megapixel cameras. Now, with a hundred choices, your chances of getting the ideal camera are slim IF you know digital cameras at all. Sometimes, ignorance is bliss.A620 pros: Easy to use. Menus are well laid out, though the primary button on the back of the camera could have \"easier\" more readable buttons. But once you get used to them, they're fine. Love the various special effects that you can add to your pictures. And even the movie mode will give a decent movie if you have a 1 gig card.The LCD is fantastic, and revolved 180 degrees. Not that I expected to take a self-portrait, but I actually have used the easy-to-see (in most any light) LCD for all kinds of shots.The viewfinder (a must for those of you who are looking at any digital camera) is good, and off by only a degree or two.Pictures are sharp and the lens is as good as Olympus Zuiko, and that's going some.Before I forget, I'd give Canon an A+ on its software. It is downright simple and though I might have to use Thumbs+ or Photoshop for minor tweaking, this software is a snap on layouts and printing. Many who have written about Canon's software call it \"weak\" or \"for beginners only.\" Well, I'm no beginner, and it's a pleasure to get a composite print or contact sheet set up and printed in 5 minutes.Portraits and landscapes are excellent. Closeups...see below.It's fast.It has the feel of a 35mm camera. It has some weight and it's comfortable.The zoom is very good.Cons: Can't turn off flash in Auto mode.The macro is trickier than the Olympus and doesn't always produce good results. One trick is that you press the shutter button half-way before taking the picture, and you'll get better focus. Half of my pictures are macros, and I've been somewhat disappointed. I think that going to the manual mode is the solution, and that may put off most who go the digital route for more than just point and shoot.The warning light for using a tripod seemingly comes on 80% of the time. Admittedly, we've had rain in California since I bought the camera, but I have no trouble keeping the camera steady and, in low light suituations, letting the flash do the rest.I'd recommend the camera, but if you're looking for one that you can just tuck in your shirt pocket, this isn't for you.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Not Great, Just Good.", "unixReviewTime": 1151539200, "reviewTime": "06 29, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A36A1ZYZH8568P", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "Ethan Winning \"Ethan Winning\"", "helpful": [55, 58], "reviewText": "I've been an serious amateur (if that isn't an oxymornon) photographer since 1955. Four years ago, I went digital with an Olympus 3.2 megapixel Camedia. Love that camera, but started having problems (over-exposure in all modes, and contrast off especially in macro. After six months of study, I decided on the A620, and am moderately happy with my decision.I should explain that, no matter how much investigating you do, you'll never know if you made the right decision. When I bought the Olympus, the choices were limited to perhaps four 3+ megapixel cameras. Now, with a hundred choices, your chances of getting the ideal camera are slim IF you know digital cameras at all. Sometimes, ignorance is bliss.A620 pros: Easy to use. Menus are well laid out, though the primary button on the back of the camera could have \"easier\" more readable buttons. But once you get used to them, they're fine. Love the various special effects that you can add to your pictures. And even the movie mode will give a decent movie if you have a 1 gig card.The LCD is fantastic, and revolved 180 degrees. Not that I expected to take a self-portrait, but I actually have used the easy-to-see (in most any light) LCD for all kinds of shots.The viewfinder (a must for those of you who are looking at any digital camera) is good, and off by only a degree or two.Pictures are sharp and the lens is as good as Olympus Zuiko, and that's going some.Before I forget, I'd give Canon an A+ on its software. It is downright simple and though I might have to use Thumbs+ or Photoshop for minor tweaking, this software is a snap on layouts and printing. Many who have written about Canon's software call it \"weak\" or \"for beginners only.\" Well, I'm no beginner, and it's a pleasure to get a composite print or contact sheet set up and printed in 5 minutes.Portraits and landscapes are excellent. Closeups...see below.It's fast.It has the feel of a 35mm camera. It has some weight and it's comfortable.The zoom is very good.Cons: Can't turn off flash in Auto mode.The macro is trickier than the Olympus and doesn't always produce good results. One trick is that you press the shutter button half-way before taking the picture, and you'll get better focus. Half of my pictures are macros, and I've been somewhat disappointed. I think that going to the manual mode is the solution, and that may put off most who go the digital route for more than just point and shoot.The warning light for using a tripod seemingly comes on 80% of the time. Admittedly, we've had rain in California since I bought the camera, but I have no trouble keeping the camera steady and, in low light suituations, letting the flash do the rest.I'd recommend the camera, but if you're looking for one that you can just tuck in your shirt pocket, this isn't for you.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Good, but not great", "unixReviewTime": 1144713600, "reviewTime": "04 11, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2EZTM9WY5B5IL", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "Frank J. DeFelice", "helpful": [25, 27], "reviewText": "I bought this camera to take photos of items I sell on EBay. With 7.1 megapixels my shots, even with extreme blowups, come out sharp. I do a lot of closeups, so I need sharpness. This camera delivers. Since it uses AA batteries I don't need to charge it. It's easy to use too, so you get a lot for your money.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Camera For Closeups", "unixReviewTime": 1146700800, "reviewTime": "05 4, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2ZCXIZHS191TG", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "Fred Anonymous Smith", "helpful": [65, 65], "reviewText": "This is an outstanding small camera. It is difficult to call it a \"point and shoot\" considering the number of advanced options. It has most of the core features offered on even upscale 35mm cameras just a decade or so ago, updated for digital. Regardless, those seeking family shapshots will find it very easy to use (the \"basic\" users guide covers everything), while the more advanced features (covered in the \"advanced\" users guide) will appeal to more serious photographers. In addition to the standard shooting modes (full auto, aperture priority, shutter priority, full manual, and so on), one will find complete control of white balance, numerious pre-programmed color modes along with full color adjustment, the ability to use auxiliary lenses and filters, and more.Picture quality is impressive for such a small camera - better than any 35mm point & shoot camera ever used. Images are sharp, with colors vivid and accurate. Focus and exposure metering are spot on (even more so with spot metering and selectable metering zones available). Lens aberrations (barrel distortion and edge blurriness) are virtually undetectable in \"real-world\" photos. Purple fringing, a problem with some digital CCD sensors, is not a major issue here.The flash is perhaps the weakest point of this camera. Not horrible, but obviously could be better. Like most compact cameras, red-eye with flash pictures can be a problem. There is a red-eye reducing flash mode and the camera has a built-in filter to address this, but neither fully eliminated the problem with all subjects. An external slave flash, such as the Canon HF-DC1 or more fully featured Metz 28 CS-2, may offer some relief in this regard. But, even if one eliminates the red-eye problem, the flash is still too weak, located too close to the lense, and not automated enough - too often resulting in over-exposures, vignetting with close subjects (even more so with the conversion lenses), and not enough light for distant subjects. One is almost forced into existing light photography with this camera, but the results are certainly worth it.The Canon .45x wide angle (WC-DC58N) and 1.7x telephoto (TC-DC58N) conversion lenses are a blast to use. As explained in the \"advanced\" users guide, these require a special lense adapter (sold separately) attached using the bayanet mount hidden under the large metal ring at the base of the primary lense. The ring is removed by pressing silver button on camera body to the bottom right of the lense. These two increase coverage from 24mm wide angle to about 245mm telephoto. However, vignetting prevents the use of the entire zoom range. With the telephoto, for example, vignetting starts just below 80-90mm, limiting use to above that - offering a zoom range with the conversion lens of roughly 180-245mm. The lense adapter also accepts standard 58mm filters, but many (light correction, color effects, and so on) can be simulated in the camera.I did extensive research (magazine and user reviews, as well as several trips to the camera store) before deciding on this particular camera. In that process, I was able to narrow the list of possibles down to six - this camera, the FinePix E900 (weak low light focusing), the PowerShot S80 (strange lens adapter and too easy to accidently turn on), the Cybershot DSC-V3 (discontinued in this market, but still available if one hunts), the Olympus SP-350 (somewhat sluggish performance), and the Pentax Optio 750z (weak viewfinder, weak focusing, and somewhat sluggish performance). None of these other cameras performed especially poorly, which is why they made it into the final selection list. So, even with the minor issues noted, any of them would be a good choice. However, this camera, the PowerShot A620, just seemed to do almost everything well - ultimately making it the best choice in this camera category.Note: Several reviewers here have expressed doubts about the soft plastic door over the USB and A/V connectors. When I mentioned this to a repair tech at a local camera shop, he allowed me to try pulling the door off a store damaged camera (dropped flat on it's face on the hard tile covered cement floor). While I'm sure the door will come off if pulled hard enough, it is a lot tougher than it appears.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Does almost everything well - making it the best choice.", "unixReviewTime": 1150329600, "reviewTime": "06 15, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1QZJQBYI0X7ZC", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "Hsiang-ming Wang \"simbawang\"", "helpful": [39, 40], "reviewText": "There are two things I don't like about this camera one is the size and the other is the high background noise during video mode (Anyone else also experienced this?). But with the features, I can live with it. Since there are so many reviews already, I'll just point out a few things that are different as compared to other cameras in the similar price range.1. 1.3 sec start-up time, 1.9fps Continuous burst capture of Large/Fine images - FAST2. Rotating LCD - make portrait shot easy and LCD is better protected3. 4x optical zoom- as compared to 3x in almost every other camera4. Macro mode can be as close as 1cm!5. Fastest autofocus I have seem.6. 640x480 video at 30fps- if only the noise can be reducedNot to mention the excellent picture quality and all the facy mode and manual controls- this is a great camera, if you don't mind the size.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Fast startup, excellent macro, many features, Fairly big camera", "unixReviewTime": 1141776000, "reviewTime": "03 8, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1HDQMD058B644", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "James Q. Smith \"JQS\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "While somewhat ungainly in shape, this is a marvelous technical camera.It takes excellent pictures, saves photos rapidly, cycles quickly to allow rapid photography, and is more frugal power wise so batteries take more photos.  Its movie mode is so good, it competes easily against many digicams, but in a far more portable size.  The movable LCD viewfinder is as effective as the legendary rotating lens made famous by the Nikon coolpix.  Over 6 months old, my camera has taken some abuse and is alive and well.  Some users have warned against jamming the lens mechanism, so I've taken care to insure the lens shaft is free of dirt and moves freely.The built-in instructions are easy to understand, but the camera falls short of 5 stars because one needs to read the manual to understand the fine nuances of programming this camera.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Large and Lovely", "unixReviewTime": 1163980800, "reviewTime": "11 20, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A33GNK4YENACDJ", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "John McQuitty", "helpful": [22, 22], "reviewText": "This is a superb little camera.  Excellent pictures, great feature set, fast performance - couldn't ask for more.  I bought the camera to replace an \"antique\" digital camera that simply could not keep up with the grandkids - and caused me to go back to film - until I bought the A620.  This Canon is fast to start up, almost no noticable shutter lag, and takes perfectly exposed pictures.  The auto focus is fast - even in low light.  Macro and \"My Colors\" are great features.  Also,I can customize exposures, focus points, etc., about any way I choose.  Excellent value for the money.  I'd definately recommend this camera.  Did I mention - Great Pictures?!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Superb Camera", "unixReviewTime": 1141516800, "reviewTime": "03 5, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1N9XAW3PW6DH7", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "KAZMAN", "helpful": [24, 26], "reviewText": "I've had this camera for a couple of days now and it is great.  It is very fast and takes sharp pictures.  The only thing that I'm concerned about is the high level of audio noise when capturing video.  I'm not sure if this is normal or whether I've got a faulty camera.  Otherwise, it is a great successor to my old trusty Kodak.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent", "unixReviewTime": 1129161600, "reviewTime": "10 13, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A37WU7T0IMD3KA", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "Kevin K. Fosler", "helpful": [20, 24], "reviewText": "I was interested in this camera because of the swivel LCD.  It looks really good in all areas, but it is missing a very important feature essential in cameras at this time:Image StabilizationIt is making its way into all lines of cameras, including the Canon Elph series.  Sony, Kodak -- they are all moving towards image stabilization.I have used several cameras with image stabilization and I will never go back to a camera that doesn't have it.The 2\" LCD is also small by today's standards.  The Kodak EasyShare One is selling at a very attractive price point right now (&lt; $200, I got one for $149).  It has a 3\" swivel LCD, and great video mode with high compression and high quality.  However, that camera also lacks image stabilization.A camera can have excellent specs in all areas, but if it doesn't have image stabilization, blurry pictures will inevitably result in many lighting conditions.Save your money, wait for image stabilization to make its way into this line of Canon cameras, or check out the many cameras on the market that have this now.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "No Image Stabilization -- Show Stopper", "unixReviewTime": 1153440000, "reviewTime": "07 21, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3BACUOZV1M0WM", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "L. G. CHARLOT", "helpful": [46, 46], "reviewText": "I purchased my A-620 specifically for use underwater in a Canon WP-DC90 housing. I needed an u/w camera system with both still and video capability that met my $750 budget, and the A-620 with housing was actually $100 less than that, including a 2 gig SD card for $135. As of June 2006, the camera's street price has dropped more than $100 from it's introduction, making it a real bargain if you like it's features. For full techno review, see the reviews in DPREVIEW or DCRESOURCE, but here's my two cents worth:What I like about the A-620:1. Uses good ol' \"AA\" NIMH batteries. I hate proprietary power packs that you can usually only buy mail order or from camera stores at three or four times the cost of a set of AA's.2. Fully point-and-shoot if I just want snapshots or my wife is using the camera (she is a techno-phobe who fears complexity in any gadget). But when I need to be more specific about settings, or the lighting is poor, the camera has full manual exposure and manual focus controls. In normal daylight conditions, Program mode takes very nice pictures. For conditions where I need a lot of depth-of-field, I can use Aperture priority at f7.1 or f8.3. VGA movie mode. Excellent video quality for this camera's price point. The audio quality isn't great - get a real camcorder if you want good sound - but for underwater use audio was irrevelant since I added my own separate music track in post-production. The finished video DVD from my Cozumel dive trip was incredibly good; I would have had to spend many thousands of dollars on professional gear to get any substantial increase in quality of the video image.4. Available waterproof housing for under $175, good to 130' for recreational scuba diving.5. Build quality very good (except for the I/O compartment door), camera's control dial and buttons have a nice feel to them.6. Reliable image quality. Camera rarely makes auto focus or exposure errors in the automatic modes.What I don't like about the A-620:Actually, there is little to complain about. For this camera's very low retail price, it has tremendous capabilities, especially when U/W capability is your primary concern. It would have been near perfect if it had the following features: RAW image output, 28 mm wide angle instead of 35mm.My main gripes: The lens zoom has only 9 discrete steps; I wish there were more steps or better yet a stepless zoom.The lens can not be zoomed while shooting video. According to Canon, the reason for locking the zoom in video mode is to not have the zoom motor's noise on the audio track. For underwater video, this would not be a problem since there is no ambient sound to be recorded anyway (the camera is in a sealed housing). IMO, the video zoom lockout should be something that the user can enable or disable as a menu choice.Summary: Outstanding value for a compact, the A-620 offers a really nice suite of features, very good image quality, and with the addition of the WP-DC90 housing for $160US, it is one of the BEST (maybe THE best) underwater camera systems available for ameteur use. Keep in mind that even a teaspoonfull of salt water leaking through a microscopic defect in a housing seal will usually destroy a digital camera. With the A-620, you lose a $225 camera. With a DSLR, say a Canon D-20, you lose a camera body and lens worth maybe $1800. And as any scuba diver will tell you, there are two types of underwater photographers: those who have already lost a camera to a housing leak, and those who are waiting for their turn to lose one. I highly recommend the A-620 and WP-DC90 housing. Even for use on dry land, the A-620 is a really nice small camera that fits in a jacket pocket. Most photographers that have advanced past the novice level may find the 4x zoom range too limiting, in which case the super-zoom cameras may be more appealing (many brands and models available).For regular use, I will probably replace my aging Minolta 7I with a Fuji S-9000, which is similar in many ways - it uses Compact Flash cards, AA batteries, and has a manual zoom ring. I will then reserve the A-620 for u/w use on dive trips. NOTE: The WP-DC90 housing is specifically fitted for the A-620 and does not fit any other camera.Problems1. Very occasional auto-focus errors even in full daylight, but only perhaps 1 in 200 shots (0.5%). By contrast, my Minolta DImage 7I produces auto focus errors on about 15% of shots.2. The cover for the I/O ports is a soft plastic and doesn't firmly snap into place, it is frequently flopping loose and I suppose it will eventually break off completely.3. The power button is too exposed and it is too easy for it to get pressed by other objects in a camera bag. This could cause damage to the lens or the motor drive that extends it if the camera is tightly fitted in the bag and the lens can not freely extend. This problem can be avoided by storing the camera with the play/record switch in \"play\" position, or of course by removing the batteries (not very convienient).4. Camera flash has pretty good power output for a compact, but produces lots of red-eye in photos of people or family pets (esprcially cats). The in-camera red-eye reduction feature doesn't seem to help much. I guess red-eye can be removed by most PP utilities.I consider these problems to be MINOR and they should not be construed as a reason to avoid this camera. At it's current street price of $225, it is an outstanding value (I paid $350 in October 2005). I have shot about 2500 stills and four hours of video clips and have been completely satisfied.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Canon A-620 with WP-DC90 housing Highly Recommended for Underwater use", "unixReviewTime": 1149897600, "reviewTime": "06 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A149RNR5RH19YY", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "matt.mingkee", "helpful": [191, 220], "reviewText": "A620I think this is the best digicam I ever hadI also have SD500, the good thing is small, but I am disappointed of itwithout flash, the pics blurred; A620 does not have such problemand A620 has flip screen, that you filp it in when not in use for protectionas a successor of A95, it employs SD/MMC card, that I just use my SD card in inventory, and all my devices have native SD support (my Dell Axim, Inspiron 6000d), then I don't have to buy additional card readerhowever, this cam eats a lot of memory in video mode, even in 1/4 VGA mode, buy at least 1GB SD card is recommended, 2GB or higher is more ideal (you can use 4GB, 8GB if it's available, because the camera supports FAT32 file system, like SD500)if you don't mind the size, A620 is a better choice over SD500/550", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "a lot better than SD500", "unixReviewTime": 1128988800, "reviewTime": "10 11, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2H7KGS4W565LW", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "Mitch Chapman", "helpful": [44, 44], "reviewText": "I received an A620 as a Christmas present.  Compared to the Olympus C-4000Z which I've used previously, the most striking difference is that the A620 is so fast and easy to control.It takes only a few clicks of the arrow buttons on the back of the camera to set up everything from custom white balance to shutter delay.  I haven't yet found controls for saturation and sharpness, but I don't think I'll need them.The movie mode is very nice, at 640x480 and 30fps.  The results look just as sharp as those from my Sony Digital-8 camcorder, though of course the A620 won't let you use the optical zoom while recording.  The audio does seem to pick up a hum from the camera itself.The camera's sensor resolution is about 7MP, and the optics must be good: 5x7\" prints (from a Canon i960) show excellent detail.  I haven't yet tried printing at 8x10.I've yearned for a digital camera which would produce the levels of shadow detail one sees in an Ansel Adams print -- the kind of detail that draws the viewer in ever closer until his or her nose is almost on the paper.  I'm just getting started with the A620, but for small prints and low ISO settings it looks like it could do the trick!The A620 uses AA batteries.  Pick up a set of NiMH batteries and a recharger (the camera comes with 4 Panasonic alkaline batteries) and you'll be all set.I'm not sure how quickly the batteries drain.  So far I've gotten nearly 100 photos and a couple of minutes of video from a set of 2000 mAh Radio Shack NiMH batteries, charged once.The camera comes with a 32MB SD card.  You can't get very many high-resolution photos on such a tiny card.  (And I think you could fill it with less than 30 seconds of video.)  I bought a 512MB SD card, which should have room for about 150 photos.  I'm not sure how much Motion-JPEG video it will hold.The included USB cable works without a hitch.  The A620 supports USB 2.0, so it transfers photos and movies quickly.  However, the plastic door which covers the camera's USB port is flimsy, and it interferes with the camera's wrist strap.  A separate USB 2.0 SD card reader would probably be more durable.A lens adapter and accessory telephoto and wide-angle lenses are available for the A620.  I've ordered the lens adapter and a 58 mm rubber lens hood, which I hope will let me take glare-free photos through the side window of my airplane.  The adapter is threaded, so it should also accept polarizing filters.The A620 will fit in a coat or vest pocket.  It will even fit in a shirt pocket, but it'll cause a significant bulge -- and a sag: it's pretty heavy :)  If you want a pocket camera you might want to consider another model/brand.This was a gift, but I think it's amazing that you can get so much camera for less than $400.Cons: small included SD card, flimsy USB adapter cover, some audio hum in movies, may be too large for some tastes.Pros: fast, easy to control, sharp focus, great detail, good movie quality, AA batteries, lens accessories, great price.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Fast and flexible", "unixReviewTime": 1135900800, "reviewTime": "12 30, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1SWYA4KR18EZ1", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "M. P. Daniels", "helpful": [16, 16], "reviewText": "I have used this camera now for almost a year, and it is an excellent camera.  The picture quality is excellent with accurate color and sharp images.  I have not noticed any purple fringing.  The barrel distortion at wide-open can be seen if you look for it, but is not noticible in telephoto (this is typical of all telephoto cameras)  It is fast, especially when using the continuous shooting feature.  I have been able to get good pictures of the kid's basketball activity at ISO 200 in a fairly dark gym without the flash by using the continuous shooting.  This model has a huge advantage over the 540 because it has 4 AA batteries instead of two.  As a result, the flash powers up quickly and allows you to take shots without waiting for 10-20 seconds.  It also seems to last forever with 2400 mAh ni-mh batteries.  The LCD display is easy to see indoors and out and has one of the best features of this camera, something that all digital cameras should have.  Being able to rotate the display so that you can hold this camera over your head and over the crowd and still see what you are shooting is very useful.  Point and shoot automatic mode works great, but I usually use the A, or aperature priority mode.  There is visible noise in the images at ISO 400, but it's a good thing to have when shooting in dark places where other cameras won't let you get a shot at all.  The flash is positioned off to the side enough that you won't always get red-eye, but not enough that red-eye won't be an issue in some of your pictures.  (Photoshop Elements works very well for eliminating red-eye)This camera has a mode where you can take a series of pictures for a panaramic shot and then stitch the images together later.  It is EXTREMELY useful and if this is something you do, you will be ecstatic about it.  The only software I have used that comes bundled with this camera is Photo-Stitch, and it works very well and even allows you to make a QTVR movie.  If I were a realtor, I would use this feature for clients. I use a SanDisk Ultra II 1gig SD card with this camera and they work together well. The documentation books that come with this camera are very good and explain the features in a way that makes them understandable.  They also give tips on taking good pictures.  There is nothing at all about this camera that I do not like, and I have used it extensively. I have owned three other digital cameras, including a truly awful Sony W-5 and I cannot say the same about them.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Highly recommended", "unixReviewTime": 1163808000, "reviewTime": "11 18, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A35EL6G7SDSTSF", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "Nicki J", "helpful": [24, 35], "reviewText": "Loved the camera but both the originally ordered one, and then its replacement, had lens problems.  The original had a nick/scratch INSIDE the lens.  The replacement did not.  The replacement DID have a very distinctly visible band of cemented glue ALL the way around the INSIDE of the zoom lens.  The original did not.Called Canon and their CSR apparently took a look at an A620 they have in their center and said he saw the same thing and that it shouldn't be a problem.Whatever. I expect a purchased-new product's construction to be perfect.  At least give me the illusion of quality control and standards.Shame Amazon won't replace it again. Maybe the third one would have been the charm.*****UPDATE*****Amazon did send third replacement.  But this one had noticeable vibration and noise when focusing and the \"shake\" warning came on with EVERY shot even when I sat it on a table to test it.  Kept the one with the ring.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Lens problems", "unixReviewTime": 1150416000, "reviewTime": "06 16, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3TOBT18VWU0KM", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "OldEngineer", "helpful": [37, 43], "reviewText": "Upgrading from an old 4 MegaPixel Canon A80 to a 7 MP Canon A620 I didn't expect to lose sharp details in my photos.  However I often did.  In paired test shot after paired test shot the A620 would slightly miss focus.  Viewed blown up on a computer screen images taken by the A620 were noticeably fuzzier than those same scenes shot with the old A80.In some simple scenes the A620 did sharply focus.  Then it produced excellent images.  However in the normal sorts of pictures I take of family and scenes the A620 often chose to focus someplace that made everything I cared about be slightly out of focus.The A620 takes a picture noticeably quicker than the A80.  The delay from button press to finished.  This is good.  However I wonder if the design goal of reducing the shutter release delay removed the time it used to take to focus as competently as the old A80.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Fuzzy Focus", "unixReviewTime": 1142726400, "reviewTime": "03 19, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2Z0V2Q0ANL31U", "asin": "B000AYJDD6", "reviewerName": "P. LLC", "helpful": [16, 18], "reviewText": "I just wanted to say one thing about this camera.  I do believe canon did a great job following up on the A95.  However, what i am very dissapointed in is the construction of the camera.  Notice that most digi camera under 250.00 do not offer 7 Megapixles.  that is reserved for the higher priced cameras.  The reason canon was able to do this is simply in the body construction.  PLASTIC - and alot of it.  Its flimsy feeling plastic.  the A95 had a much more sturdy feel than the A620 especially in the pop out LCD.  the cover for the ports on the camera (USB, Power...) is very poorly designed.  Its a rubber/plastic type piece that is made to fit over the ports but never seems to want to stay - theres no latch or way to secure it.  The A95 had the ports scattered all over the camera, which I liked, it allowed me to have more than one cord plugged into the camera without trying to shove them into one small space all together.  the rubber piece covering the A95's ports were alot more effective.  I have No idea why they decided to go with the SD memory type instead of sticking with the compact flash.  that just boggles my mind.  Anyhow...Performance wise the A620 reminds me very much of the A95.  the menus are familiar and the options are a plenty.  I like being able to control how the camera focuses, where it focuses and the grip/LCD combo makes it easy to take interesting angle shots where as other cameras have the LCD fixed on the back of the camera (how are you going to take that myspace picture without a mirror or flip around LCD screen...HMMm???).  The image quality is what you'd expect.  Im not sure if the images Look Better but u can certainly zoom closer into them without getting any pixles.  I would say it hosts about the same amount of colors.  speaking of colors..the \"my colors\" option on the camera is pretty neat.  Change any color to another or accent any color you want.  Now you can also set your own white balance (an advanced feature only enthusiests would want to use)...im tired..i have nothing else to say...If you are an enthusiest with a very limited budget I wouldnt look further than this camera.  theres no two ways about it.  its an amazing price for a VERY versitile camera (most digi's arent even this versatile untill you get to the SLR range.)", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "A620 the new A95??", "unixReviewTime": 1153872000, "reviewTime": "07 26, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A31ICLWQ9CSHRS", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "Al Swanson", "helpful": [31, 34], "reviewText": "My first L lens and I'm sold. While I did spend a lot of time - a lot, this isn't a small purchase - on deciding between this and the 24-70/2.8, I feel I made the right decision. First, I took into account what I actually shot. Not what I thought about shooting or wanted to shoot, but what I really spent my time shooting. Then I backed that up by looking at the past six months' worth of photos. For me, this is the right choice.The big decision wasn't over image quality - rather it was the max aperture. 2.8 vs 4.0. The 4.0 with IS won. I absolutely LOVE the IS! Even at higher speeds, IS rocks. (It also eats batteries like a Hummer guzzles gas)OK, so shooting with it is a dream. Incredibly fast focus. Wonderful fit and finish. I could gush all night.If you're spending a lot of time trying to justify it, don't. If it won't break your bank, it's well worth it. If you're trying to decide which lens, try what I did. It made all the difference to me.What's the downside? I'm ordering a 17-40 today. The L lens bug has bitten. Next will have to be the 70-200/2.8. There goes the kids college fund. :-)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Superb lens for the XT/XTi", "unixReviewTime": 1160784000, "reviewTime": "10 14, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3OG85XSUW19VK", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer \"RG\"", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "I purchased this lens in late 2005 after Canon had flare issues in the first production run. I've used it with a EOS 20D (1.6x crop), 5D (full frame) and 5DMkII (full frame).  This is the lens that stays on my 5DMkII body most of the time.  Why?1.  The focal length makes it ideal for landscapes, portraits and general action shots.2.  At f/4 it is fast enough for the above, but is not too heavy like an f/2.8 lens, and balances well on the body.3.  Image stabilization is good for 2 stops, Canon advertises 3, but 2 in real-world situations.4.  Sharpness and color contrast is beautiful from this lens. I've had prints made from shots that I was casually taking without much thought in composition, and they've turned out great. The color is one of the best I've seen from most any lens.5.  Sometimes, you have to travel light, and when you can only take a single lens, this lens is the one because of 1-4 above.6.  Robust and well built. I've used this lens in dust, light rain and outdoor conditions in heat and cold without fault.There are drawbacks to this lens:1.  There is barrel distortion throughout the focal length on a full-frame body, but is not noticeable unless you're at 24mm or 105mm, more so at 24mm. This I believe was a design comprimise by Canon.2.  On a full-frame body at 100% crop, you will notice some loss of edge sharpness at f/4.  This is not a problem when you want edge sharpness for landscapes and typically shoot at f/8-f/16.3.  Canon sells these like hotcakes, and you can get one that has been banged around due to shipping or mis-handling.  Canon will calibrate this lens within the 1st year free of charge to make it as sharp as possible.Overall, I don't think Nikon or Sony has anything like this.  The Nikkor 24-120 is no match for this lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Probably the Best Walkabout Lens Available", "unixReviewTime": 1250640000, "reviewTime": "08 19, 2009"}
{"reviewerID": "A3FEGTOLCWXSV4", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "Ammy_Evaluator", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "When I bought this lens two years ago, I agonized over the non-IS 24-70mm/2.8 and the digital only 17-55mm.The 17-55mm almost had me, with its wide angle, light weight, and amazing image quality. However, I couldn't get past the dust issues that users were reporting with it - not at its price point. Furthermore, the lens is digital only, which seemed a major limitation if I ever went full frame. (Of course, the FF dream seems rather out of reach in hindsight.)I even tried the amazingly priced Tamron 17-50mm/2.8, but the build and image quality compromises were too much for me.The real challenge therefore came down to the 24-70/2.8. Judging by my informal survey of lenses used by photographers on Popular Photography, the 24-70 was a clear choice. However, two things worked against it for me. It was much heavier than I thought I would be able to handle for a full day, and the extra speed would very likely be offset by this weight compounded by a lack of IS. I'd be sacrificing sharpness due to camera shake, especially when hand-holding this lens without the assistance of IS.The 24-105mm/f4 seemed the best compromise. I was told by my professional photographer friends that I'd not even notice the trade off of image quality and that I'd come to appreciate the versatility of this lens. Thankfully they were right.I absolutely love this lens. Even with the 1.6x crop factor, this lens is wide enough for indoor shots, and the IS has been undeniably helpful. The images are sharp, with awesome colors. They have an almost 3-D like quality about them! Throw in my Speedlite 580, and the f4 is no longer as limiting as it would seem. I've never complained about its weight even after carrying it around for days. Its build quality is simply amazing - it is literally built like a tank and its zoom and focus rings are smoother than ever.If you're starting out in digital photography, I'd strongly recommend that you ditch the kit lens as soon as you can, and start off with the 50mm/1.8 prime (the nifty fifty), this 24-105mm/f4, and a Speedlite 580. This combination not only provides the best bang for the buck but also provides the best all-round kit.Side note: I am of the camp that believes that the lens is more important than the camera. I'd rather get an average camera and spend extra on the optics than the other way around. This lens actually made me a better photographer, and I'm grateful to it.Happy Clicking!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The best all purpose Canon lens", "unixReviewTime": 1315612800, "reviewTime": "09 10, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A1T1YSCDW0PD25", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "A. Wiersch", "helpful": [37, 41], "reviewText": "This is a great lens. I have a 20D and it instantly became my favorite lens because of the quality, size, reach, and of course IS! I don't think my 24-70L will get much use anymore. I also have a 17-40L that I will use for wider shots, but the 24-105 will definitely be on my camera most of the time. The IS is great and is very quiet and effective.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "My new favorite lens", "unixReviewTime": 1133568000, "reviewTime": "12 3, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AGXV8E7XK9J6H", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "Brian Koch \"Aspiring Photographer\"", "helpful": [32, 35], "reviewText": "I got this lens to complement my 10-22mm and 100-400mm lenses.  It is a great general purpose lens (not too wide, not too narrow) for everyday walk around shooting.  The image stabilization and constant aperture are nice features.  It is also weather sealed so you don't have to worry about the elements as much as with most other lenses, of course you would need a weather sealed camera body to be completely safe, but it still makes me feel a little better in sandy or snowy conditions.  I use this on the Rebel XT and Rebel XTi which are 1.6X crop bodies and make this closer to a 38-168mm which can be useful for portrait work, landscapes, large animals, or somewhat close macro.  Of course there are lenses that do all of these things better, but to get this all in one package is really valuable.  After all you are less likely to miss a shot if you have 1 versatile lens vs. 5 really great specialized lenses (not that you shouldn't get those too, but this is a good all around contender.)  I have posted a few photo examples above to show the range of colors and versatility of this lens.  It is not the sharpest lens I have, nor the fastest, but it is the one that is on my camera most often unless I am going out to shoot something specific.  If you don't want to spend quite as much, the 28-135mm is also a very good lens.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Versatile", "unixReviewTime": 1163116800, "reviewTime": "11 10, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A4WEZJOIZIV4U", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "Chuck Bittner \"Disabled comedian & gamer!\"", "helpful": [20, 92], "reviewText": "If you would like a list of sites with reviews email me atgumby (at) dontquotemeonthat (dot) comsome reviewsPros:  Extremely high resolution at all focal lengths. Excellent contrast and color. Sturdy build.Cons:  The laws of physics and optics apply.Pros:  Focal length range. Sharpness, contrast and saturation is comparable to the 24-70L. 3rd gen IS is excellent. Lightweight and weathersealing.Cons:  Distortion, esp from 24-35. Vignetting (light fallout) in the corners on a 5D (which I returned).send me an email for review sitesif your a newbie here's some infoA lens is \"fast\" when it has a low f-stop... ok so when you have a smaller number the apature is bigger which allows more light through, so this means you can up the shutter speed. and still have enough light reach the sensor.ok so lets say you have an out door shot if you have say an f/4 lens the shutter speed could be 1/250 of a second and you would get a good exposer. Now this lens can only go f/4but if you in the same outdoor setting, had an f/2.8 lens you could jump to 1/500 of a second and get the same exposer. and freeze the action mmore effectivly, this i believe is why it's a \"fast\" lens.ok have fun and get it done", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "This is a L lens they rock", "unixReviewTime": 1134432000, "reviewTime": "12 13, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A30C8WHQ2CYFO4", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "David Siegfried", "helpful": [22, 29], "reviewText": "I've got both a full-frame 5D Mark II and an APS-C 60d camera and I love them both. I purchased a Canon 70-200mm f/4 zoom lens and completely fell in love with it. On the APS-C format it's equivalent to a 112-320mm zoom with superb edge-to-edge contrast, sharpness, and color rendition. I was so hooked on this \"L\" glass that I yearned for the equivalent quality in the wide-normal range. First I purchased Canon's 24-70mm f/2,8 (via internet auction). I got a very good copy and yet it didn't deliver that \"wow\" factor that I got when I first started using the 70-200. It also seems very heavy for the range, and the lack of IS makes it seem outdated. I have the EF-S 15-85mm for my APS-C and that is a very sharp and light lens that has great IS. The 24-70 should have exceeded that lens in IQ, being \"L\" glass and all, and yet it did not. I put the 24-70 back up for auction.Enter the 24-105mm f/4 IS. The image quality is nearly the same as the 24-70, perhaps a teeny bit less sharp and having more distortion at the wide end. It has that extra 35mm on the long end. The IS means I can get cleaner shots hand-held than with the 24-70. All in all, it's a perfectly functional and versatile lens, I prefer it to the 24-70, and yet I find that I rarely use it.First of all, just like with the 24-70mm lens, the image quality just doesn't give me that ZING that I get from the 70-200. The two lenses share some focal range, and at the 70 and 100mm lengths the 70-200 totally blows away the 24-105. At the \"normal\" range of 50mm, my humble Canon 50mm f/1.4 has considerably better color and contrast, not to mention better low-light capability. That leaves using this lens in the wide angle range of around 24-45mm, and in this range I find the image quality to be just, well, average.When I want a wide view, I usually switch to the interesting Sigma 28mm f/1.8 prime lens. Its image quality may be no better than this lens, but it offers a much wider aperture and also a very close focusing distance. The close focusing distance is something I really utilize because I do a lot of nature photography and I like to completely fill the frame with my subject, such as a flower. The wider aperture gives me more versatility for playing with depth of field.The Canon 24-105mm f/4 lens is an extremely well built lens that does it all but doesn't excel at any particular focal length. My EF-S 15-85mm lens delivers a similar FOV for APS-C, has better IQ, and it doesn't even carry the renowned \"L\" designation. I am still looking for a wide angle zoom for full-frame format that delivers killer image quality in the same league as the 70-200.So I give the lens three stars due to the disappointment factor. I'm thinking I may have to just sell this and several other lenses to fund the purchase of the exotic TS-E 24mm f/3.5L II.To repeat: I really wish Canon would deliver a wide/normal full-frame zoom that delivers images as amazing as their 70-200mm lenses.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Why can't Canon make a wide zoom as good as their 70-200mm lenses ?!", "unixReviewTime": 1316304000, "reviewTime": "09 18, 2011"}
{"reviewerID": "A2YEZ8Z3BW2SKG", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "eric melzer", "helpful": [15, 16], "reviewText": "I have owned a Canon Rebel XTi for about a year, and I just have had enough of mediocre the kit lens. There are plenty of great EF-S lenses to choose from, but I decided after reading tons of reviews that I was done getting the middle of the road lenses, and decided to invest in something nicer. This lens does not disappoint. The IS works amazingly well, the pictures are almost always sharp with great color and contrast, and the bokeh is great for an f/4 lens. Of course, I am only comparing this to my kit lens and my 50mm f/1.8 lens, which had been the sharpest lens I've ever used until i got the 24-105. The problem with prime lenses is the fixed focal range. With this lens, I get the quality of a prime lens with a great range of 24-105mm.The build quality is legendary compared to any lenses I'd used previously. When I hold this lens in my hand, I feel like it will last forever. The rings turn smoothly and feel like quality rubber. The focus is fast and precise, and I honestly can't think of a thing I'd change on this lens, with the exception of maybe one stop faster (to f/2.8). I really wanted the IS feature though, so i decided to go with this one.If you are considering a lens in this focal range and this price range, I wouldn't hesitate to try this one. The more I use it, the more I enjoy it. The quality of my photos has improved tremendously since I purchased this lens. The L series doesn't have a great reputation for nothing. How many lenses have so many 5 star ratings? The price was hard to swallow for me at first, but now I'm hooked, and I only want to buy L series lenses, even if it takes me longer to get them.I recently upgraded to a 40D (couldn't help myself), and the combo of that body with this lens is the perfect walkabout lens for me. It feels solid and they make a great team. It's amazing how much better quality this lens is than the 28-135mm lens that comes with that camera kit. I have done several comparisons and you don't need to view at 100% to see that the 24-105 lens beats it every time, hands down. I sold that kit lens to a beginner friend of mine (28-135 is a great starter lens) and I never looked back. Ok, I looked back a little so I could write this review. But from now on, I'll never look back.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Wow. It really is as good as they say.", "unixReviewTime": 1191542400, "reviewTime": "10 5, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AG8XXURGEVC3", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "Greg Acuff", "helpful": [40, 45], "reviewText": "I have both lenses, the 24-105 4 L IS and the 28-135 3.5-5.6 IS. I have a 20D, but my wife and I decided we each wanted a camera to ourselves so I bought the 24-105 lens along with the 30D about 2 months ago.  I was so sure that I'd see a big difference with the L lens since my 70-200 2.8 IS L is such a superior lens. The thing is, I can't justify it.  I've set the camera on a tripod and switched the lenses back and forth taking pictures with identical light and settings on a variety of subjects.  (They both take extremely nice pictures)  Maybe with a full frame sensor the difference would be apparent.  At this point I like the extra reach of the 135mm.  I'll let my wife use the $1200 L lens. My recommendation is: for the money on a cropped sensor camera I'd stick with the 28-135 lens.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Nice but costly compared to the 28-135 3.5-5.6 IS", "unixReviewTime": 1155945600, "reviewTime": "08 19, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AKX18HV0HQNUF", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "John", "helpful": [32, 35], "reviewText": "Let me start by saying that I am a hobbyist, photography is not how I make my living.This is the first lens that I purchased to use with my canon 30d and I love this lens.  The second weekend I had it, our family went to Universal Studios in LA I took some fantastic shots with it all day long.  Some of the most exciting shots were taken the action packed Waterworld show.  All of the explosions were crisp and the colors vivid!That same weekend we ate dinner in The Grove behind the CBS studios where I found this lens' f stop completely disappointing.  The pictures were worthless even when trying to use my speedlite 430.  I was very disappointed with this lens performance in low light conditions.  The only way I could take pictures with this lens was with the speedlite flashing directly on the subject.  The pictures did not turn out well when trying to bounce the light off the ceiling or a wall; the flash has to be pointed directly on the subject and they turned out looking like snapshots from a point and click camera.Subsequently, I purchased the 24mm f/1.4L and now I feel like I have it all.  I use the 24-105 walking around during the day and the 24mm f/1.4 in the evening and at night.Understand the limitations with an f/4 lens.  Best of luck!!A little over a year later, I'm still using this lense as my everyday lens for outdoors.  It stays on my camera unless I need I need a different lens for a particular shot enviroment.  but then it goes right back on.  It is great!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Excellent lens during the day! f/4 hurts in the evening", "unixReviewTime": 1189987200, "reviewTime": "09 17, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3GD6FMPHD40L2", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "J. Wong", "helpful": [67, 73], "reviewText": "I've had my 24-105L IS for about two months and have shot everything from jewelry and landscapes to portraits and a wedding reception  with it.  It has replaced my 24-70L and 28-135 IS as the lens I use for both \"serious\" work and walkaround duty with my full-frame DSLR. The extra focal length and IS make it more versatile than the 24-70L, and the two lenses run equal with sharpness and color response.  The IS works, and to me, more than compensates for the the 24-70L's speed.  The 24-105L has the 28-135 IS beat for sharpness and color response.  Some post-processing is sometimes called for to realize the lens's full potential, but it captures a wonderful amount of detail.  It's also much more manageable in size and weight than the 24-70L.  This is a great lens.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Hands Down My Favorite Lens.", "unixReviewTime": 1152921600, "reviewTime": "07 15, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3BACUOZV1M0WM", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "L. G. CHARLOT", "helpful": [11, 11], "reviewText": "I own four \"L\" series lenses, and the 24-105 is the one that spends the most time on my 60D.  The zoom range, from medium wide-angle to medium telephoto, certainly makes this one of Canon's most versatile \"L\" series lenses. There are professional reviews from TheDigitalPicture.com and DPReview.com that present all the technical details, so I won't spend time going over them here; my review will just be my own reasons to buy this lens and why I like it so much.1. Build quality.  Simply superb, as one expects from an \"L\" lens.  The zoom and focus rings are silky smooth.2. Optical quality. Very sharp throughout the zoom range.  Not quite as sharp as my 70-200 f2.8L, probably due to the extra two lens elements for the Image Stabilization system (my 70-200 is the non-IS version).  Color rendition and control of distortions are both excellent.3. Weight and size: Since this lens has image stabilization and a USM focusing motor, it is somewhat bulky, but the weight is not objectionable, and the beautiful \"feel\" of this lens in your hand more than makes up for the weight.4. Speed: As an f4 maximum aperture lens, it is a full stop slower than the 24-70 f2.8L USM, but if you don't need the extra DOF of the f2.8, this lens is $1200 less expensive.Conclusion: Simply put, the 24-105 f4.0 IS USM is arguably the single most versatile lens in Canon's \"L\" series lineup. True, it is substantially more expensive than \"regular\" lenses of this size range, but if you have a Canon camera body with 18+ megapixel resolution, you will not be getting the image resolution quality from the camera that the sensor is capable of if you are using a $150 \"kit\" lens.  Another reason to go with \"L\" series, even if your current camera is a one of Canon's lower end Rebel models, is that all of the \"L\" series lenses use the EF full-frame mount.  This means that if you decide to upgrade someday to a Canon full-frame camera like the 5D, 6D, or 1D, you will keep your \"L\" series lenses - no need to buy new ones!  I have never regretted buying this lens and highly recommend it for anyone with a Canon EF or EF-S DSLR.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The most versatile of the Canon \"L\" series lenses", "unixReviewTime": 1364774400, "reviewTime": "04 1, 2013"}
{"reviewerID": "A22YDTOK7TEW6S", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "L. Jones \"OCwildlife\"", "helpful": [62, 69], "reviewText": "I believe where this lens meets it's expectations is the ability as a walkaround that can shoot everything with quality.I was looking for a lens that would allow me to have two lenses on a shoot. One being a longer zoom, or one a prime portrait low light, whichever needed, along with my new 24-105Lf4IS... I got tired of lugging alot of lenses around.The Image Stabilization in this lens is superior to the older version, which makes up for low light situations. It would have been nice though if Canon could have managed a f2.8-4 instead, but the lens takes excellent quality L shots, better quality and color than the 17-85IS. Hand held at 1/7s no prob.It has become my \"always on\" lens, the colors are very pleasant, replacing my 17-85IS. If you are looking for a step into the \"L\" world, this lens is it. You can add the primes later. Now I'm hooked on my first \"L\".The 24-105L coupled with the 70-300IS would make a complete package for quality range and pro shots.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great walkaround, first L lens.", "unixReviewTime": 1137801600, "reviewTime": "01 21, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2PSD2R9A1CXG7", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "L. T. Beasimer \"www.LBphoto.net\"", "helpful": [234, 260], "reviewText": "I first bought the Canon EF 28-135mm IS lens to use with my Canon 10D along with theCanon EF 75-300mm f/4.5-5.6 Zoom Lens. About four years later I have sold all my original purchases.  The Canon EF 28-135mm was my most used lens, and I still had it until March 2006 when I replaced it with the Canon EF 24-105mm IS f/4L.Being an L lens, the dust and moisture resistant construction of the Canon EF 24-105mm IS f/4L is sturdy.  The lens consists of eighteen elements in thirteen groups including one Super-UD glass element and three aspherical lenses to minimize chromatic aberration and distortion.  With a standard twist zoom focus, this lens permits for auto or manual focusing depending on how the switch is set.Some of the earlier lenses had an issue that caused lens flare.  This issue was resolved quickly with a recall.  If the control number located on the back cover of the lens begins with a UT and the following number is less than 1,000, then the lens is affected and should be sent in for repair.The Canon EF 24-105mm IS f/4L lens is compact measuring 5 inches long and lightweight weighing in at about 1.5 lbs/670g, and accepts 77mm filters.  Be sure to get agood quality UV haze filterto protect the front lens element. Not only do I see this as a good practice, Canon recommends doing so on their site as well.  The f/stop ranges from 4 - 22. The closest focusing distance is 18 in/45 cm. In addition, the lens has a USM drive mechanism for optimum AF performance, and the pulse control diaphragm (EMD) ensures precise aperture control.The IS system is composed of a pair of gyro sensors to detect vertical and horizontal motion and a microprocessor that compensates for it by shifting special lens elements in parallel with the perceived movement. It is recommended that the IS be off when shooting on a tripod. I have used the IS on myBogen 3231 monopod with legssuccessfully. A monopod is not as stable as a tripod though, with or without the legs. Using the IS, you can obtain sharp pictures three stops below where you normally would. This is a huge advantage in dim light or places where flash is prohibited. Just keep in mind, the IS attempts to eliminate camera movement, not the movement of the subject being photographed.A distance scale ring sits below the focus ring. Turn the distance scale ring all the way to the left and you are set for low magnification close-up photography. Turn it to the right and you are able to set for infinity compensating for changes in temperature as necessary. The distance scale includes figures in red as an infrared index to use when shooting black and white infrared film. Shooting infrared is not available on all cameras. If this feature is a must, make sure this lens is compatible for infrared photography on your camera body.The Canon EF 24-105mm IS f/4L includes a 1 Year US Warranty, the front & rear lens caps, theLP1219 soft pouch, and theEW-83H lens hood.  The hood will decrease chances of lens flare and increase metering accuracy. If you use filters, Canon recommends against stacking.The Canon EF 28-135mm lens is similar in build a little shorter and weighs a couple ounces less.  Of course the Canon EF 28-135mm has a wider focal range.  Both lenses have single mode IS capabilities, and are good walkabout lenses.  Having used the Canon EF 24-105mm IS f/4L the difference in weight and length is hardly noticeable.  The shorter focal distance is not missed, and I have a constant f/4 through out the focal scale unlike the Canon EF 28-135mm with a 5.6-36 on the long focal range.  The images using the Canon EF 24-105mm IS f/4L is sharper and clearer than those using the Canon EF 28-135mm.If the Canon EF 24-105mm f/4.0L IS lens' price is not a problem, this is the lens to get. Otherwise purchase and enjoy the28-135mm IS lens.  The great thing about Canon lenses is they tend to hold their value.  If you want to upgrade from the 28-135mm, sell it on a popular auction site like I did.PROS:A compact L standard IS zoom that is an excellent walkabout lens.Versatile multipurpose lensCONS:A price typically found on L lensesMay become your most used lens", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "An excellent walkabout lens", "unixReviewTime": 1152316800, "reviewTime": "07 8, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A26U6L4Z2OTMXV", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "Mark Twain \"Sam\"", "helpful": [11, 51], "reviewText": "Sorry to say this lens does not take pictures any better than my stock 18-55 lens. When I paid $1,000 I was expecting to be impressed by some increase in picture quality. It was hard to tell a difference, even harder to justify the steep price.I may be no professional photographer, as you may tell that I am not \"blown away\" by the L in the lens name. Yes, the lens is sturdy and it has a nice feel. It also adds an extra 2 pounds on my camera. Yes, it does take great pictures, but nothing amazing, not any better than the lens my Canon Rebel came with.Unless I received a second quality item, it does not justify not even a $300 price, let alone the steep $1,000.I will return the item.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Not any better than stock lens", "unixReviewTime": 1198713600, "reviewTime": "12 27, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A17LEZ9IYD54EH", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "mavn \"Rand Fan\"", "helpful": [92, 101], "reviewText": "I was looking to spare my shoiulder from the weight of my Canon 24-70MM L lens.  The 24-105 L IS seemed like a good replacement: it got good reviews, has more reach, AND it has IS. I got the 24-105 from Amazon (always fine service) and promptly took numerous exposures for comparison, ready to sell my 24-70.On identical exposures, sharpness was almost undestinguisahble with the 24-70 just slightly sharper.I could live with that if the 24-105's other attributes put it ahead.  But then I took a closer look at the comparison images and what I found was a surprise. Even though sharpness was ok on the 24-105, the actual detail and contrast with this lens was noticeably lacking when I looked at zoomed-in images on Photoshop comparing both lenses.  The 24-105 looked just fine when there was no comparison, but as soon as comparison was done it was no contest.  I showed these comparison images to someone who is less of a photographic \"nit-picker\" than I am.  I did NOT tell this person which image came from which lens. It only took a few moments for her to (correctly) deterine which lens had produced a superior image and it wasn't the 24-105.I usually read \"internet reviews\", especially from non-pros, with a small \"grain of salt.\"  So I wouldn't blame anyone for being skeptical about my criticism of a lens that has gotten nice reviews from others.  So, DON'T BELIEVE ME.  Instead, do the zoomed-in comparison yourself and look for the relative lack of contrast and detail.  If YOU see no difference (or don't care about the difference) then go for the lens.  For my money, even though the 24-105 is a very nice lens indeed, it's no 24-70, and it was, regretfully, returned via Amazon's courteous return policy.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "The Canon 24-105MM L IS is no 24-70MM L", "unixReviewTime": 1182470400, "reviewTime": "06 22, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A2E2I580OO3HET", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "M. Broderick \"mikebinok\"", "helpful": [357, 385], "reviewText": "The name of the game here is portability, flexibility, and good but not incredible image quality.This lens is often tagged a \"walkabout\" lens, and that's a good description.  There's nothing better if you want to carry camera and lens about and get a variety of shots in the range from wide angle to short telephoto.  It's difficult for lens designers to make all the compromises necessary to have a lens go from wide angle to telephoto, and have a max focal length over four times the widest focal length, but Canon has done a good job here.  The image stabilization works excellently when hand held (it cuts image quality if you use the stabilization from a tripod, though).  The f/4 maximum aperture cuts the size and weight down quite a bit.  Image quality is excellent for a zoom from about 30mm up to 90mm, good from 90mm to 105mm, and tolerable from 24 to 30mm (getting better in the 28 to 30mm range).  As expected, image quality is best stopped down to about f/8, but is still good wide open at f/4.I can't say the lens has major flaws, but relative weaknesses are the wide angle performance, and the f/4 maximum aperture.  The lens is not fast enough for shots of moving subject indoors.  For stationary subjects, the image stabilization lets you take shots with slower exposure times than you'd expect, but stabilization won't do anything to improve a moving subject.Build quality is excellent as expected, but the lens is quite compact and light, much better than the 24-70/2.8 zoom that is its obvious rival.Also, if you are after the absolute maximum image quality, prime lenses will do better than this lens in the normal and telephoto range (35 to 105).  My $75 50/1.8 lens far outshines this one in sharp, crisp imaging.  Zooms that don't have to accomodate both wide and telephoto focal lengths will also outperform this one--My 70-200/4 lens is much sharper and more contrasty, and even my 16-35 lens outperforms this one in the 24-28mm range (the 24-105 does do better from about 30-35mm, though).  All these things aren't surprising, and they are no reason to condemn or even criticize the 24-105.If money isn't a major concern for you, and you want a superb compromise lens, this is the one to pick.  The only lens that can hold a candle to it is the old 28-135 IS zoom.  If you get that one, you'll get inferior image quality and much less effective stabilization.  But you'll also save quite a bit of money!", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Wonderful general purpose lens, with the expected limitations", "unixReviewTime": 1178755200, "reviewTime": "05 10, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "ACHTDPEQYSEQL", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "mhnstr", "helpful": [14, 16], "reviewText": "I purchased this lens to replace my 28-135mm lens.  The 28-135mm served me well but I have been quite pleased with other Canon L lenses and decided to upgrade.  I shoot photographs to submit to competitions and so I wanted the additional sharpness that L lenses can give.My first impression of this lens is that the focus is a bit soft, but I have been shooting indoors and may be seeing the limitation of the f4.  This is something to consider if you shoot indoors.  In this case, you may want to compare this lens against the f2.8 24-70.  I will continue to test this lens to make sure that it fits my needs.  All of the reviews about lenses needing recalibration have made me a bit nervous.The thing to consider when purchasing from Amazon is what comes with the lens.  I was pleased that the lens that I bought directly from Amazon (item number 0344B006) came with the EW-83H lens hood and the soft case.  Prior to the purchase, Amazon customer service could not tell me if the lens hood was included.  However, other vendors who sell on Amazon such as Beach Camera told me that if you bought through their Amazon storefront, the lens would not have the hood.  It is best to contact the vendors if you want to make sure that you are saving yourself the expense of purchasing a hood (which you should definitely purchase for this expensive of an investment).", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great lens, but make sure you know what is in the box", "unixReviewTime": 1198540800, "reviewTime": "12 25, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A3DRT9IRH63ZHB", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "Michael Morgan", "helpful": [177, 199], "reviewText": "I have owned two copies of this new lens (Nov 05 and Jan 06 builds).  Both consistently front-focused on my Canon calibrated 20D.  I kept the Nov 05 lens (much sharper than the Jan 06 copy when manually focused) and sent it to Canon for \"calibration.\"  The Jan 06 lens went back to Amazon with a note indicating how it was defective.  The calibrated lens now provides very sharp and contrasty images, even wide open at f4 for 24-85mm.  Image quality fades somewhat as 105mm is approached but is still excellent if the aperture is stopped down to f5.6.  I've conducted controlled tests and this lens is just as sharp at f4 as my Canon 50mm f1.4 when stopped down to f4 and at 70mm it matches the image quality of my excellent 70-200 f4L.  The image-stabilization really works and allows sharp photos of stationary or slow moving subjects to be taken in the same light as an f1.4 lens. I'm happy with the final outcome but Canon's poor quality control makes getting a good lens a matter of luck and/or determination.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Superb Image Quality Once You Get a \"Good Copy\"", "unixReviewTime": 1143331200, "reviewTime": "03 26, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1VQHH85U7PX0", "asin": "B000AZ57M6", "reviewerName": "MyBeesWax \"A Music Fan\"", "helpful": [10, 10], "reviewText": "This is one of the most popular lenses, and with good reason -- you get a lot of bang for your buck. It has an ultrasonic motor drive (USM) for fast focusing, image stabilization (IS), and a very versatile focal range that covers wide angle to mid-telephoto on a Canon 5D and respectable 38mm to 168mm (1.6*24 ~= 38, 1.6*105 = 168) focal lengths on cameras with crop sensors, like the Canon 7D, the Canon Rebel series, and cameras with APS-C sensors (1.6x crop factor).Its only downside is its f/4 aperture limitation. On the upside, it has a constant f/4 aperture (i.e. the f/4 aperture setting can be maintained across all focal lengths).- SharpnessThis lens is sharp across all focal lengths. I haven't noticed any degradation in image sharpness on either the 24mm or the 105mm end. However, the lens is sharpest between f/8 to f/11. Outside of this \"sweet-spot\" (i.e. below f/8 or above f/11) shots of distant objects are *noticeably* blurrier. (See uploaded images on the product page for a comparison of images shot with different f-stops.)For relatively close subjects, however, the difference in image quality across f-stops is a lot less perceptible - that's good news if you're using this lens for portrait shots and plan on opening up the aperture for a bokeh effect.- Chromatic Aberration (CA)The lens assembly uses Ultra-low Dispersion (UD) glass (reserved for Canon's best lenses), so chromatic aberration is minimal, even in bright light (where it's barely noticeable or imperceptible). In more even lighting, this lens shows absolutely no signs of chromatic aberration.- Auto-Focus (AF)The auto-focus is real snappy. Thanks to its ultrasonic motor (USM), it brings objects into focus in a fraction of a second. In the AI Servo mode, the focusing mechanism is very responsive for bringing even very fast-moving subjects into focus. However, as with all lenses, the auto-focus inevitably has a bit of trouble in (i) lowlight conditions and (ii) with surfaces that lack texture or contrast.- Image Stabilization (IS)The image stabilization is amazing. In my book, image stabilization is a must for a lens to be truly called a \"walk-around\" lens. For the times you don't have your tripod with you, the IS on this lens will prove very invaluable for helping you steady your shots, especially at the 105mm end! (It helps to bear in mind, too, the rule of thumb: the shutter speed should be at least as fast as the reciprocal of the focal length.)- Internal Focus (IF)The Internal Focus is a big plus, especially for landscape photographers who use a circular polarizer (also known as a polarizing filter). With Internal Focus, the barrel on which the polarizer is affixed doesn't turn and throw filter out of adjustment, so it saves you from having to readjust the filter after the subject is brought into focus.- BuildThis lens simply oozes quality. There's a good heft to it but it's not too heavy. Both the zoom ring and focusing ring turn very fluidly. The zoom ring is tight enough to prevent zoom creep.- Alternatives You Might Be ConsideringCanon EF 24-70mm f/2.8L USM: The EF 24-70mm f/2.8 has a constant f/2.8 aperture, but alas, it has no image stabilization, which is a real shame. The lack of image stabilization is definitely a deal breaker for most people, including myself.Canon EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS USM: The Canon EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 is an equally popular lens. (Note: it has an EF-S, not EF mount, so it's not compatible with the 5D. It's compatible all other bodies, such as the 7D, the Rebel series, and other Canon DSLR's with crop sensors.)With the 1.6x crop factor taken into consideration, this lens has focal lengths of 27-88mm. In terms of image quality, the 17-55mm f/2.8 is on par with the 24-105mm . It, too, uses Ultra-Low Dispersion glass. The only downside is it's not weather sealed (which is not a concern for me). If you don't mind forgoing \"reach,\" I would highly recommend the 17-55mm f/2.8, which is one of the best low-light lenses you can buy. I use it for landscape and portrait, and it's my walk-around lens of choice.---The quality of this lens is top-notch and definitely worth the money. It offers a very useful 24-105mm focal range without compromising on sharpness. The only limitation is the f/4 aperture. If this is not a concern for you, this lens is definitely worth consideration.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Well Constructed Lens That Delivers Exceptionally Sharp Photos", "unixReviewTime": 1336521600, "reviewTime": "05 9, 2012"}
{"reviewerID": "ANRQC38TN5G12", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "A Customer", "helpful": [35, 36], "reviewText": "This is quite a versatile handheld computer.  I run Beyond Contacts, Adobe Reader, Ultrasoft Money and AvantGo on this.  In this way, I am able to keep up with my finances by synchronizing with Microsoft Money, take my email, tasks and contacts on the road by syncing with Outlook and I can keep websites and ebooks stored on the Z22 for reading on airplanes and in doctor's offices and places like that.  The colour screen is quite good and nice for the websites.  This is a great handheld computer for $99.00.  No wifi, but at $99.00, you get more than what you pay for.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Excellent value for money", "unixReviewTime": 1131926400, "reviewTime": "11 14, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A1YH2JHHC8G227", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "akasan \"akasan\"", "helpful": [13, 13], "reviewText": "I'm not too much into the world of pdas.  This is my first. I have rediscovered reading while on the subway, i also use it to read books on the job. It's small yet the print is clear.  It's okay for showing pictures.  It has a lot of  organizing functions as well but I haven't used them much.  I bought it mainly so I could read books on my tedious  job without have to actually carry them around.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "I have rediscovered reading", "unixReviewTime": 1132531200, "reviewTime": "11 21, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "ATN4J5VS8Q0YM", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "Anna Hope", "helpful": [41, 42], "reviewText": "I bought his palm specifically for reading e-books. I'd never used an e-reader or a palm before, relying on good old fashioned paperbacks mostly, and was nervouse that the smallish screen and scrolling would be both confusing and unenjoyable. Not so!The screen is more than decent for reading and if you still have trouble you can always enlarge the font, something you don't have the option with on printed texts. Also I never had to worry about keeping my place since the e-book program always opens up on the last spot you left off on. And instead of scrolling like you would on a regular computer program, the palm just has you toggle the center button to flip pages! No words running together as I constantly scroll and give myself a head ache!The battery has a great life and in two weeks of rabid reading I've gone through 4 books and only had to charge up 3 times. Plus, having this has given me an extra bonus. Not only can I pull this little gem out of my purse and read on the go whenever I'm bored ( i.e. the line at the grocery store, waiting for my freinds to try on clothes at the mall, ect.)but, since I'm a nightowl, my husband doesn't have to deal with the night stand light being on while I read. The light that illuminates the screen internally is plenty bright to read by. He loves my palm so much that he' getting one of his own.A handy little stilas is kept in a sneaky compartment of the palm and the games, calendar, notes, and lists have been great for helping me organize. This palm doesn't come with a case, but for less than $5 I was able to pick up a small samsonite digital camara case that fits it perfectly without hogging space in my purse. This has been a great purchase!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great E- Reader!", "unixReviewTime": 1173657600, "reviewTime": "03 12, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "APQQK1V695AUE", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "Ann E. Revelle", "helpful": [12, 13], "reviewText": "I have owned several Windows CE and Windows Mobile devices (including WM2005 based machines) over the last several years made primarily by HP and by Dell, but I finally gave up on Microsoft-based products entirely in total frustration. I am a scientist and what I wanted was an pda style organizer for my numerous tasks, memos, contacts, etc. without having to babysit the battery for its short period of portability (except for the HP 720 pda) and still had put up with software that had way too many bugs and needed numerous third party applications to be really useful (which often conflicted when used together however since they were produced by independent programmers from numerous companies). What I found after much looking at Royal, Franklin, Sharp, Casio and other companies was the Palm z22 and it is just what I wanted and needed. It has a tremendous battery life of about 9+ hours (quite amazing for a colorful portable machine, but with a low resolution screen), quality software provided with 3 calculators (2 of which are science-based and made by infinity softworks), and a quality, no frills input system for tasks, memos, contacts, notes, etc. It also syncs very easily with my Windows XP-based PC where data is backed up and synchronized with either MS Outlook or with the Palm Desktop software very easily (your choice). It also works well and easily with the Think outside infrared (IR) portable keyboard which I highly recommend for writing long memos and also fits very nicely in a Rhinoskin/Saunders metal case (with a large full screen sized, clear viewing window) and that provides access to the most needed function keys directly below the screen. I also highly recommend this IR keyboard since it runs on its own batteries and hardly drains the Palm z22 at all (unlike bluetooth based devices!). I also purchased a 1 year extended warranty through Amazon for $ 9.99 since the Palm OEM version lasted for 90 only days which is hardly reasonable in my opinion for such a portable device. All in all I am quite pleased with the unit and use it extensively every day to record my detailed wishes, thoughts and future plans.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Just what I wanted and needed", "unixReviewTime": 1169510400, "reviewTime": "01 23, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A35VG5NCAWKUI", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "bz", "helpful": [29, 30], "reviewText": "I am an original owner of a USR Palm Pilot Professional. I paid $300 for it. The bad news is that I rarely use it at all. The reason is that the Pilot is not a pocket computer like my Sharp PC-1350. So, it has been collecting dust like any other gadgets in my house. I already have alot of expensive paper weights. So, what make me buy the Z22 is primary the price and the use of flash memory in this unit. I can finally store all my phone numbers in this Palm without worrying that my numbers will be gone when the battery runs out (I hope). Another thing I like the Z22 is the size and the shape. It is a perfect size for my pocket. The screen is kinda \"sink\" into the case. So, the screen is kinda protected inside my pocket. The screen is smaller than the other models but it is bright. I am so surprised that I can read the screen so clearly. Another thing I am surprised is that it comes with a database program called Mobile DB. It comes with alot of different ready-made databases. This is the most useful program for the Z22 beside the games I download from the web.To sum it up why the Z22 is not another gadget:1) Price2) Size3) Useful Database ProgramWhat make it only 4 stars:1) The Palm Desktop won't work well with Windows NT/2000 or XP Professional (must be admin to use it. good luck if you want to use it in your office)2) The power button doesn't have a little pit/hole for me to use the styli to push the power on.3) Graffiti 2 is bad. (need 2 strokes instead of just 1. Why don't they just pay Xerox for the original Graffiti?)In conclusion, the Z22 is an affordable and a very practical Palm .", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Very Affordable", "unixReviewTime": 1131494400, "reviewTime": "11 9, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2KVCZP7QD62Z1", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "Cari E.", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "I was a little disappointed when I received a defective item on May 3, but I called the following day and was surprised at how helpful the customer service reps were at both Palm and Amazon. I received my replacement handheld less than a day later and I've had no more problems so far.With that said, there's a lot to love about this little guy...First of all, the obvious: what a great price! As a student, I was on a budget and only wanted something to replace my old-fashioned agenda and various unorganized papers, schedules, etc. It gives me all the features I need at a price that's beyond reasonable. I've always thought buying cheaper electronics almost always results in problems, and while I see that other reviewers experienced some and I received a defective model at first, this appears to be a very stable, useful device. Basically, it is what it is. It's not trying to be an mp3 player, a video player, or any other kind of portable media device. Personally, I know I don't need the extra features of PDAs that cost 100s of dollars more, because I already have devices that do those things.Aside from this, it's very easy to use. I had never even picked up a Palm handheld before and after I charged it up I messed around with it a bit and was able to figure out everything I wanted to do. The setup is very straight forward, syncing is easy, and even adding software is a breeze. While I'm pretty experienced with electronics, I imagine even someone who has no experience would have no problems setting up and using this device.And from a less technical standpoint... you have to love the Z22's design. I love how stylish it looks in the little rubber case I got for it. It's compact, super cute, and fits nicely in your hand. The screen isn't too big, but it's definitely not too small. I feel like it's a comfortable size and weight to take anywhere with you, without sacrificing anything. Some might feel the screen size is on the small side, but I really think it doesn't need to be any bigger. And though it's something that a lot of people might overlook, the buttons on this thing are great. I've had a lot of devices with buttons that are too flat or small and sometimes don't respond when you push them(because it's a mission to do so), but I can't see that being a problem with this one.Overall I'm very happy with my Z22 so far and if I don't have any problems like I did in the beginning, I can see using it for a very long time.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great product, perfect price.", "unixReviewTime": 1146873600, "reviewTime": "05 6, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A188G2XR43OJJW", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "Everfree", "helpful": [22, 22], "reviewText": "This is the most practical, straightforward, reliable PDA around.  If you want a great, easy to use personal organizer, look no further than the z22-- It has the perfect feature set for the job (stylish compact design, color screen, Palm organizer software, Graffiti 2, USB Hotsync, incredible battery life, etc.)  It is small, adequately featured, and to the point.If you're looking for something that will surf the net, edit office documents, display pretty pictures, and play music, look elsewhere.  (However, I would seriously question whether such battery-consuming features are really necessary or practical in a handheld device like this, anyway).More importantly, at $100, you can actually afford to buy another z22 if you lose it and not be so concerned about keeping the unit in ship shape.  It's also the smallest PDA around, which makes it easy to carry around in your pocket.  Get a screen protector and you're all set.  (I do highly recommend the screen protector, as the screen is a bit less durable than the more expensive PDA's).", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Most Practical PDA Available", "unixReviewTime": 1163462400, "reviewTime": "11 14, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A5JLAU2ARJ0BO", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "Gadgester \"No Time, No Money\"", "helpful": [20, 25], "reviewText": "The Palm Z22 is cheap, and for a good reason: it's a very cheaply made PDA with a processor supplied by a third-world manufacturer.  Its memory (about 18MB actually accessible to the end user) is also very slow, and cannot be expanded.But, you say, this is under 100 bucks, so why do I care?  You should care because 1) the Z22 is slow and frustrating to use beyond simple datebook and addressbook operations, and 2) it crashes often, and 3) I had lots of problems with Hotsync on the Z22, whereas my old Palms never had a problem.  The worst part was, my unit (bought at a local store) competely went dead after a couple months, proof that quanlity control on this slapped-together piece of c**p is nonexistent.Don't get me wrong, I love Palms.  I use both Palm and Pocket PC but I tend to prefer Palm for everyday PDA needs.  But the z22 is a disgrace to the Palm brandname.  The processor is low-quality and low-speed, and the low-resolution screen goes blank outdoors (i.e., virtually unuseable).  BTW, a lot of new software like games will not run on this because the screen resolution is way too low.  Many cell phones have high resolution that the z22.In short, this is cheap but you'll feel short-changed, so stay away.  Save up a little more and get a better Palm, at least with an Intel processor and a better screen.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Underpowered, very poor screen, poorly made", "unixReviewTime": 1143158400, "reviewTime": "03 24, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AC91U9GYXZUB1", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "H. Friedman", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "I decided to go with the Z22 after reading these reviews and to replace my monocromatic Palm V. I wanted something that was within $100, able to handle all the lists, tasks and ical content but in color. The Z22 seemed to fit that bill and the specs seemed pretty impressive compared to my current Palm V. However, I was very dissapointed with both the screen size and display resolution. Don't get me wrong, the color is an improvement and certainly aids in color coded organization but the major problem is the way this device displays it's pixels information. I work in the Computer Animation field, so I know a whole lot about how LCD and CRT displays work. This product's display is poorly manufactured. There are pixel scanline issues (for a lack of a better description) with this model that make your eyes tired at the onset. If you look at the default photo #2, you will immediately see what I am talking about. There are these rows of moving pixels that are very bad for your eyesight ( and could cause headaches). You will not notice it on the menu bars until you adjust the contrast settings.I called support and after finally convincing them to pick up the darn pda and look for themselves, they admitted to seeing the same moving pixels. They said to return it as a defect but how can it be a defect if they see it themselves? Anyhow, I love Palm but if you are going to use this product on a daily basis, then I would highly recommend going with a better model until they improve this model. One star for a major blunder in their display technology and add a star because everything else works properly and because I like Palm.UPDATE: I have since purchased the Palm Tungsten E2 Handheld. This is FAR superior than the Z22 and although it's almost twice the price, you won't be dissapointed. You buy cheap, you get cheap. Your Z22 won't last while the E2 will.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Screen Display poor on the eyes", "unixReviewTime": 1136937600, "reviewTime": "01 11, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1TK5OMJPJQ3LB", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "Joe M", "helpful": [58, 61], "reviewText": "The Z22 has no way of disabling the automatic wakeup for calendar alarms. This may cause you to lose battery power much faster than you might expect. Especially if you do not constantly use the device for a few days and then expect to look up an address or phone number (think vacation).If you have appointments, the Z22 will turn on automatically to give you an alarm, and then repeat the process a number of times for each appointment even if you have the alarm sound turned off. This will drain your battery quickly when you think you have not been using the PDA. You can lower the time period before the automatic shutdown and reduce the number of alarm repeats, but you cannot make the display stay off and preserve your battery.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "Be wary of battery drain", "unixReviewTime": 1160524800, "reviewTime": "10 11, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1KADQBN8K90YU", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "Joseph P. Lacerra", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "Having used a Palm Pilot years ago (and given it up in frustration) and also having gone through a host of cheapie organizers which only slowed me down, I was reluctant to spend a hundred bucks on a 'cheapie Palm'.  But, I went for it and I'm really glad I did.  Because this is a Palm I can actually USE!It does not overwhelm me with features I don't need or understand.  I don't even know what Bluetooth is!  I just wanted to keep track of appointments, To Dos, and have a means of taking quick notes on the fly (which, up 'til now, I found a $.49 paper pad most effective).  Palm Z22 does all these things, and I can occupy myself with Chess in moments of flex time.  I have never desired to be a walking photo album, so I cannot comment on how pictures look on the display.Another big selling point was the size.  Many PDAs are just a mite too big to fit comfortably in one's shirt breast pocket.  My Z22 fits in great, even with the snazzy Covertec flip-open case I bought for it.PROS:SizeSimplicity of useCompatibility and ease of synchronizing with computerClear, easy to read displayNotepad featureCONS:Lack of expansion capabilityExpense program can't really be customized (not everyone is a  traveling businessman!)Screen protectors hard to apply and have 'bubbles'If you don't need to be wirelessly connected to every digitally available data source on the planet, and don't plan on snapping impromptu photos all the time, this product is a good bet.POSTSCRIPT:Now that I have used my Z22 for about a year, I can tell you that it is pretty good, but it can be annoying.  Mainly, the Expenses feature not being configurable rendered it useless to me.  And I could not blow it off and gain the memory.  Now, the thing stopped working altogether, except that it's calendar goes forward no matter which way I push the buttons.  I threw out this dead unit and now don't know what to get. Since most are expensive or rated poorer than the Z22.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Good for the Digitally Challenged!", "unixReviewTime": 1152316800, "reviewTime": "07 8, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2VH0UT5EQFB6P", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "Loveguitar", "helpful": [19, 20], "reviewText": "I was given a Palm Z22 this past Christmas and have used it heavily since then. Although you can't surf the internet with it, I wasn't needing a mini-hand-held computer.  I needed something to organize all of my addresses, phone #'s, etc...plus schedule all my tasks, meetings, lists, etc...  It does all these plus it has tons more useful functions. It has plenty of memory for what I need and holds a lot of data.  I teach Classical Guitar and I schedule all of my student lessons on it.  It also will remind in advance of something important coming up.  I love the game \"Scrabble\" and have downloaded that onto it.  My Palm Z22 is really a great tool and I sort of nut up when I think I have misplaced it!  It's pretty easy to use so I recently bought my husband one too.  I only had one problem with it - once it wouldn't turn on but a simple press of it's tiny reset button fixed that and no data was lost.  I'm left-handed so using the instant write function is awkward for me but I can still see how righties would like it.  I mean it when I say I have used it a lot - it gets a terrific daily workout from me and it still shows no signs of malfunctions. I never bought a case for it but it's pretty tough already being encased in molded plastic.  I put the plastic film on the screen and it's never needed replacing yet.  I highly recommend buying one if you don't need to use it like a computer.  You can download programs and games onto it from the Palm store of which there is a humongous selection.  Also, it's battery has a long life between recharges and it recharges really fast.  I can go for days without recharging despite playing 15+ games of scrabble at one time.  It's front is mainly screen with a simple toggle button below which is very streamlined and easy to use. It comes with a program to load onto your PC so syncing it everyday to back up new data is quite easy and fast.UPDATE:It is now March 7, 2008 and I am STILL USING my Z22!  It has really held up well.  I have used it hard nearly every day.  I carry it almost daily in my purse, and I still will play scrabble late into the evening after the world has settled down.  I plan to keep using it until the day it finally quits on me - whenever that will be!UPDATE AGAIN:  October 31, 2008I just noticed that the Palm Z22 is costing $369.99???  NO WAY!!! DO NOT BUY THIS FOR THAT MUCH MONEY!!!  I think I paid around $99.00 when I bought my husband's. That price (369.99) has to be a mistake.....UPDATE: May 6, 2009It just keeps on going!  I still use it heavily and the only thing that is askew with it is that it's internal battery now needs replacing which will cost about $30.00 I think.  It still hold a charge for a little while but I usually just keep it connected to the power cord.  I've done the reset thing in hopes of resetting the battery charge level indicator but the battery has finally shot it's wad.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Love My Palm Z22", "unixReviewTime": 1156982400, "reviewTime": "08 31, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1SE32MVT609B3", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "luckyduck \"LD\"", "helpful": [16, 20], "reviewText": "In my humble opinion backup your Palm Desktop software prior to using this product and performing a hot sync.Note: I have been using the Palm Desktop \"software\" for years as my personal digital assistant (PDA).  I accumulated over 2000 entries over the years.After purchasing the Palm Z22 Handheld I did the next best thing.  I synced the PalmOne Z22 PDA to my Palm Desktop software that contained all my data:- I used the default setting for my first hotSync.  But, the default setting was to \"synchronize the files\" between calendar, contacts, memos, etc.The hotsync deleted 50% of my data due to the \"default\" settings.Here are all my categories that were deleted.-- Memos- Desktop category 'onlinePurchases' has been deleted.- Desktop category 'music' has been deleted.- Desktop category 'Linux & Windows' has been deleted.- Desktop category 'massage' has been deleted.- Desktop category 'grammar' has been deleted.- Desktop category 'cc' has been deleted.- Desktop category 'magazines' has been deleted.- Desktop category 'software' has been deleted.- Desktop category 'Dell' has been deleted.I'm sure this will happen and be harmful to many people.In my humble opinion backup your Palm Desktop software prior to using this product and performing a hot sync.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Data Loss after hot sync with Palm Desktop Software", "unixReviewTime": 1161129600, "reviewTime": "10 18, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1N6712C6JHYJ9", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "MagnoliaSouth \"As soon go kindle fire with sn...", "helpful": [14, 14], "reviewText": "I came to this with little expectations after reading all the reviews here. What a nice surprise it was to find most of the claims were either incorrect or overly dramatic.This is a product designed for simplicity and new users, not power users which is where the confusion I think lies. Comparing a Tunsten T5 to the Z22 is like comparing a Jaguar with an Escort. With that in mind, an Escort drives just fine for most users, as does the Z22. It is not designed for someone looking to replace an iPod-like device, nor is it designed for someone wanting to store really large amounts of data.That said, it works fine. It really does. Though I've read the complaints, I've not had any trouble with the screen not being responsive, so far. I've dropped it onto the cement twice, and once it even went bouncing across the parking lot. Amazingly it still looks new.It stores thousands of contacts, to-do lists, notes, appointments and so forth. It stores more than I will ever use and I'm a power pc user. The software it comes with is granted, very slim, but also quite useful.It's small and very lightweight, we're talking small calculator size. I can carry it in my jeans front pocket, but for those who like very tight-wearing jeans it's probably not a good idea. Still, it sits very easily in my purse and it's not a pain to try and lug around. My cell adds tons more weight to my person than this little guy.The memory is low and the complaints are rattled over it. Keep in mind though that because it isn't an iPod clone, it isn't designed for large file sizes. For use of getting organized and planning your day, tasks, etc., it has more than enough memory.The screen resolution is not as great, but for the price that's a small loss to me. Other than that, I cannot find another legitimate con.In the end it is durable, works as promised, saves the data I need and comes with a pretty price tag. I give it 5 out of 5 stars.Note: I'll comment here if I find problems in the future.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Nice little gadget.", "unixReviewTime": 1167523200, "reviewTime": "12 31, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3DWW0N6UN9R2R", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "Michael L. Loren", "helpful": [10, 11], "reviewText": "I've used this for a year and just lost it on a trip and bought another one. I bought from Best Buy and for an extra 30 bucks made it a 2 year hassle free warranty. I would never buy direct from Palm.  This is the best pda/dollar.  It is great for the basics: keeping phone numbers, memo's. I use a Franklin planner for scheduling, I don't think it's fast enough to use any handheld. The schedule program for the z22 seems very good.  I'm a physician and use it for saving short notes on medical problems and medications. I've used the palm system for almost 10 years and the \"newer\" handwritting recognition is slower and less accurate. I do most of my data entry on the computer rather than the handheld.  The search component is bad in terms of 50% of the time the handheld \"crashes\" and has to be reset. Very annoying.  This happened with both z22 that I have.  I learned do the searches on the computer.  I have this integrated with a computer at home and work.  Photos are easy to add however the resolution is not great. It's ok to show to grandma.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "good for the basics/ good value", "unixReviewTime": 1153699200, "reviewTime": "07 24, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2GSLO6QB8DEKQ", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "NickName", "helpful": [40, 40], "reviewText": "I got this PDA because I needed something to take the place of the 4 calendar's that I normally have around the office, along with the never ending list of phone numbers that I use on a constant basis. THIS DID/DOES THE JOB!-It's not internet accessable, but that is the point! I don't need to check my email, txt someone nor make a call while on the train with this thing...THAT IS WHAT A CELL PHONE IS FOR!-The alarm function is real good, and loud, as long as you are not outside or bury in a backpack or purse.-The syncing function takes a few tries to get use to, but after you figure it out, it's golden. I have a mac and once you download the isync addition (2MB max), then you can sync your address book (THANK GOD!) and ical together, along with pictures onto your palm.Cons:-The on/off button is small not pushed up and all, so you need to press it a few times to turn it on..although, by pressing the calendar or contacts button, the palm turns on as well.-The face protector sticker sucks! It is not easy to apply, but in the long run it probably wouldn't do much good, and would just cloud the screen-The stylus is one of the old fashion full plastic one's. I know the treo's have a similar one, but the point is soft, thus protecting the screen.Pros:-Besides what I already said, the price is great, it looks good, the screen is color, fits perfectly into any pocket, no batteries and can be charged either through the USB plug or an outlet.-I would recommend this to anyone who carrying around endless notepads, and who do not want to have a large PDA-cell phone-mini computer, ala Treo.-This is a scheduler's dream device!-Having something this simple really helps in our tech-inundated world", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great for young and old professionals!", "unixReviewTime": 1148169600, "reviewTime": "05 21, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "ANP4A72YDTZJA", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "OneManBand \"Bruce\"", "helpful": [449, 459], "reviewText": "I've been using the z22 for a few days and have found it to be a great product for anyone not concerned with wireless, a large handheld display screen or extended memory.  I've used palms for several years and keep a lot of technical notes in the Palm memo app for use when I'm in remote locations doing system adminstration work.  My previous palm was a III xe - it was trailing edge technology but very durable and useful as long as I could find a synching machine that still had a serial connection.The install for the z22 was easy and worked flawlessly.  I tried the install via the usb port on Macintosh System X and Windows XP formats. The installation program pulled all my old palm info into the Z22; memos, contacts, calendar and task functions were all maintained in the upgrade.  Some of the older applications were not compatible with the Palm 5 OS on the z22.  Most of the problems apps were old games that I was not that concerned about.For under $100 dollars, I'm very impressed with the following;1) colors are bright and reading the screen is easy in light or dark settings.2) I currently have 17.5 mbytes memory left on the z22 after the upgrade.  In the PC world, this is very little memory, but for a Palm environment this is a lot of entries.  If I was concerned about using mp3's, video, doc, or Excel files on a palm format, I would consider another device.3) The battery lasts a long time.  I once used a Palm M515 color palm and it needed recharged a lot more than the Z22 does.  The advertised time of 8 hours between charges is probably accurate.4) The size and weight of this device is very light - it is not much bigger than my pager and fits very comfortably in a pocket.The only problem I've had with the Z22 is that when I use it with a Taurus wireless keyboard, the response is somewhat slow and delayed.  Also, the 160X160 screen size might be of concern to some people, but I find it to be very readable with bi-focally challenged eyes.Is there anything really innovative about this device? Not really.  But I think Palm did a great job of combining the right features into an entry level color organizer for a double diget price.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Nice for the Price", "unixReviewTime": 1130284800, "reviewTime": "10 26, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A2OS3DOVLINRFT", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "PT", "helpful": [30, 31], "reviewText": "I can't give it a 5 because I have not used other PDAs before to have a comparison. I hestitate to give it a 4 because there are things that I do not like about it.Pros:1) A cheap electronic replacement for my calendar and contacts.  It's small and light2) Task list is very useful and has alarms3) Memos and databases are also very useful utilities.4) Tons of freeware/shareware you can download to enhance your Palm experience.Cons:1) Touch screen sometimes lag or not very responsive2) Sync-ing on windows sometimes require multiple tries3) I have the Z22 for about 3 weeks now.  There's 1 incident so far where it won't turn on and require a reset.  The Z22 is protected in my air case and has not been dropped or knocked against, so I am hoping that this is not an indication of any hardware problems.4) There's a Photo ability, but the resolution is really OK. My phone has better resolution. They could make a better screen but then given the price you get what you paid for.This PDA is for those who want a simple paperless organizer, no bluetooth, no wireless, internet ... all that fancy stuff.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Good replacement for paper contact/calendar organizer", "unixReviewTime": 1139184000, "reviewTime": "02 6, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A35VY38QVPX68P", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "R01", "helpful": [12, 15], "reviewText": "Buy something else.  Screen is small.  Resolution is poor.  Screen not sensitive enough.  You have to tap several times before the device recognizes that you selected something.  The right side is especially difficult to use.  If you try to tap on the down arrow, the device opens the program closest to where you tapped instead of scrolling down.  It is extremely frustrating using the device.", "overall": 2.0, "summary": "buy something else...difficult to use", "unixReviewTime": 1156118400, "reviewTime": "08 21, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3TPNC3TKGCCEI", "asin": "B000BI2180", "reviewerName": "Raquel S. \"Avid Amazon Fan and Kindle User\"", "helpful": [49, 50], "reviewText": "This is my first PDA and now I wonder how I lived my life without one. I'm a stay at home mom with plenty of responsibilities to take care of. I never realized how helpful (and how enjoyable) this tiny device could be even for my home life.I understand that this is a basic featured (but still fabulous) PDA without all the fancy bells and whistles - that is absolutely fine for me. All the bells and whistles just add up to distraction for me. This properly featured yet powerful Z22 helps keep me focused on the tasks on hand.I love that it's attractive and diminuitive. It easily goes everywhere with me. I just wish I could attach a wrist strap. I do keep mine in a protective Flexicase, which has worked out great for my needs.I LOVE that the Palm Z22 can be used as a e-book reader. The Palm Software CD comes with the E-reader software you can load onto your PDA if you want it. By far, it is my most favorite program on my PDA. Now wherever I go, whether I'm across the house or outside my home, I keep a library of books with for me to read.I love how I can write down my thoughts at anytime. The Graffiti 2 handwriting recognition program is quite easy to learn and, when in a pinch, I can alway easily use the onscreen keyboard. Overall, very easy to use. The amazingly easy-to-use touchscreen technology makes these PDAs a gem.The internal battery in the Z22 lasts a long time and quickly recharges either by using a wall plug or when synching with the PC. Palm includes a power-off feature which will shut off the Z22 automatically unless you purposely deactivate it when you turn it on. It also shuts off after so many minutes of inactivity. No worries about it accidently turning on or forgetting to shut it off draining precious battery power. So when I'm taken away from my task because of my toddler or other family necessity, I don't worry about the power draining.The included Palm desktop program also makes it easy to keep my Z22 updated. No grievance there. The hotsync feature sometimes doesn't always connect the first time, but it's not a consistent problem. The desktop program also is programmable for different users of different palm products. So while I can use it for my Palm Z22, I can also use it to program my young son's M100 PDA without our files getting crossed. (I'm getting him started early - laf! Plus they're cheap and work great. I keep kid-friendly programs on his.)The internal 32K (?) memory is sufficient for Z22. It's plenty enough to add several extra programs (my favorites: e-reader, handyshopper, listpro), keep lots of data, and store several e-books. I still have plenty of room left to work with.The size of the screen is also not a problem for me. I'm not always crazy about the resolution, but again, I got my Z22 to be my PDA workhorse, not a movie theatre.I have absolutely no regrets getting my Palm Z22. It frees me from being tied to my computer. It frees me from cluttered thinking. Not a day has gone by since I've gotten the Palm Z22 that I haven't used it. I've been very grateful to have it. Thank you, Palm, for making such a great device that is powerful yet affordable.I love my Palm Z22! It's helping me change my life. :)", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "I love, love, love my Palm Z22!", "unixReviewTime": 1156118400, "reviewTime": "08 21, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1HM7PBAY2S5NQ", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer", "helpful": [26, 26], "reviewText": "After reading many of the previous reviews, I purchased a Palm TX because it seemed to meet my needs better than other PDAs.  I was a little nervous because many of the reviews were less than flattering.  However, I have been pleasantly surprised.  This is my fourth Palm PDA.  Previously I have owned a Palm V, a Palm 515 and a Palm Tungsten T3.  The TX is head and shoulders above any of the others.  I have used it for a month now and have not had to reboot the device a single time.  The battery life is excellent and the screen is easy to see under almost any lighting conditions.  The wireless internet access is very easy to use, although the screen size creates some limitations as you might expect.  I have found it to synchronize well with Outlook and the Palm software.  The charging cable snaps in place, so there should be no problem with it not charging.  I did purchase an accessory docking station which comes with a variety of plug-ins for the charger so it can be used all over the world.  My only little complaint is the removal of the home icon from the screen and replacing it with a button on the front of the case.  This is not a major problem, but it is a change that I have yet to fully get used to.  Overall, I'm glad I purchased this device and highly recommend it.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Pleasantly surprised", "unixReviewTime": 1149638400, "reviewTime": "06 7, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2ULPJ9UDZCGQ2", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer \"tech writer and web developer\"", "helpful": [26, 27], "reviewText": "During the past 10 years, I have owned a series of Palms beginning with the Palm III, and the TX has almost all the functions that I have been dreaming about for years.This is what I like:Well constructed. Color screen is bright and works well. It shows videos and photos without any problems. It has a strong metal-like hard plastic body and is solid. The body and screen are much nicer than my previous Palm, a Zire 71.A multimedia machine. The ability to use an SD card with up to 2 gigabytes of storage has turned the TX into a portable multimedia device that rivals the ipod. When I purchased the TX, I picked up a 512 meg SD flash card. As SD card prices have declined, I bought a 1 gig and most recently a 2 gig card. I have filled them up with mp3, jpeg and mpeg4 video files. By using the Pocket DVD Wizard, (a shareware application) I am able to convert DVDs and play them on the TX.Built-in WiFi finally! I have been waiting for Palm to offer built-in WiFi for several years and my wish has finally been granted. Although download speeds can be slow and browsing websites on such a small screen isn't fun. The browser does work and it is nice to be able to get online. I have gotten used to checking my Yahoo and Gmail web-based email accounts. (More on using the VersaMail later.)Edit Microsoft Word, Excel and Powerpoint files. The DataViz Documents To Go Professional suite comes standard on the TX. This allows you to create and edit Word, Excel and Powerpoint files on the TX. I haven't run into any compatibility issues transferring Office files between the TX and my desktop. This is great value. (Alas, no spell check. If you want spell check, you need to upgrade to the Premium edition.)Leave your laptop at home. When I purchased my TX, Palm included a mail-in coupon for a free wireless keyboard. This is a great addition. I know Palm's Graffiti language, but when it comes to typing, a keyboard beats a stylus. The keyboard folds up into a small package and it fits into my coat along with the TX. Now when I visit an office, the library or a bookstore caf', I can just take it out and start typing. Unfortunately, I noticed that Palm discontinued the keyboard give-away shortly after I got mine, but I still recommend picking up a wireless keyboard because it makes the Palm so much more useable.Now for the features that I wish Palm had included and/or improved:The biggest omission is there is no built-in microphone. This is strange because microphones have been included in most high-end Palms and Handsprings for several years. It would have been great if Palm had included one because combined with the WiFi, this device would be perfect as a WiFi phone using Skype. I have friends using Skype with their Windows Pocket PC phones. It would also be nice to be able to dictate memos.A better email client. Now that the Palm TX has WiFi, an email client is a necessity. I have found that the current version of VersaMail that comes with most Palms, works OK with certain email services like Gmail and AOL, but I cannot get it to work with my hosting company's email. There is no way to set up email authentication that most hosting companies require. I understand that Snapper email, a shareware program, does a better job, but I haven't had a chance to try it out.Incomplete multimedia software bundle. The Pocket-Tunes program that comes with the TX is an improvement over the Real Player included with previous Palms, but it still lacks the ability to play many formats, including Windows Media. I am sure this is a licensing issue and fortunately, all my music files are MP3, which it handles well. The TX also does not come with a video player; fortunately, I was able to download the free, TCPMP (The Core Pocket Media Player).Overall, I think the TX is the best Palm yet. I have been using it for nearly four months without any problems. I know eventually, I will replace it with a Treo. But for now, with its larger screen and ability to edit Microsoft Office documents, I like the TX.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Best Palm so far...", "unixReviewTime": 1140825600, "reviewTime": "02 25, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2VR3SNZMCUTZ6", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "Amazon Customer \"Use Open Source - Firefox, etc\"", "helpful": [41, 50], "reviewText": "First, I had to give the T|X 3 stars because it does run  the best OS in the business, the Palm OS, no owned by Access.The problem with the T|X is Palm Inc.For those you who might have owned a Palm system, BUT NOT the Tungsten T5 or the Tungsten T3, will love the T|X. Any Windoz users will be thrilled with it as well and probably have saved at least $200 over getting a Windoz PDA. You can't really compare the raw Specs of a Windoz PDA to a Palm PDA. The reason is the Palm OS is a much more efficient operating system, so the Palm PDA, will run slicker, be simpler, faster, have better graphics and be WAY more reliable and about $200 cheaper than the heavy overhead Windoz PDA OS.  It is kind of like looking at the size, performance and speed of Intrernet Explorer to Firefox.Okay, for those T3 and T5 users like myself, here is what the story is:1. The CPU is Slower than both the T3 and T5's CPU. The T|X has 312 mhz, while the T3 runs off of a 400 MHz and the T5 runs off of a 416 MHz processor.2. The T|X has 128 MGs of total RAM (100 active), while the T5 has 256 megs of RAM with 215 megs available.3. While the screen is excellent abnd spec wise the same as the T5 and T3, I couold swear that the T3 has a brighter and clearer screen. It does seem to be the same as the T5.4. The T|X has wi-fi built in. It is an extra $90 or $99 for Wi-fi for the T3 and T5. A definate plus for those who need Wifi.5. The T|X supports Bluetooth, unfortunately, it still have Bluetooth version 1.1, as both the T5 and the T3 do. Version 2.0 is taking over as the standard for Bluetooth, but it should have AT LEAST version 1.2. This limits the speed and distance that Bluetooth uses, when comparing it to 2.0 or 1.2.6. The uniut is rather cute.7. The USB to T|X cablesare different than any of the other Palm's. So if you have some existing USB connect cables, they will not work.8. The battery is still non-replacable and has slightly less power than the T5 and is a lot better than the underpowered battery that Palm threw into the T3. Because of the lower CPU speed and memory, the strain on the recharable battery is less and stays charged for longer than the T5 and a lot longer than the T3.9. Unlike the T3, but like the T5, there is a lack of a microphone to record voice notes, there are no visual OR vibration on the alarm like on the T3.10. I would summarize it as a less powerful PDA than the T5, but has wi-fi built in and the rest of it is like a twin to the T5. I am disappointed that it is LESS powerful than prior units.11. It is at a far superior price point to any Windoz PDA, not even close. I have now seen the price of the T|X dropping to even as low as $175.00.  At least $200-300 less than a Windoz PDA that is a decent PDA.What I am truly hoping for is that the new owners of Palm PDA, gets some creative licensees for Palm OS. I know I was thrilled to hear that LG, makers of one of the best cell phones, CD/DVD roms, appliances, monitors, etc is a Palm OS licensee.Since Palm Os is not owned by the destructive management team that took over Palm Inc after split, I think we should see some great stuff and an expansion of functionality of the Palm OS, which should kick the heck out of whatever Microsoft can do or would do. Control of market place rather than creativity and innovation is what I think Microsoft's motto should be.I am delighted that England seems to be the only nation (certainly not the U.S.), who is not allowing Microsoft to buy off the politicians or buy out its ocmpetition. They are hold Microsoft to its agreed anti-trust rules. That means, more IT jobs, better hardware and much better software, choices , innovation, competitive pricing for the entire IT market place.Monopolies are the destroyers of a free enterprise system.JonFor those who have used those two superior products, it is a REAL disappontment, I wish I looked at the specs first.The T|X has virtually no new technology that Palm has not released before. It is like they took some parts that were hanging around, put in WiFi, which one had to pay extra for, as well as put in a slower CPU and put in 1/2 the Memory of its prior T5.  Plus they did something to the grafetti language where there is a delay now when I", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Slower and less features than other Tungsten's", "unixReviewTime": 1139443200, "reviewTime": "02 9, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "AOOU9K4YEPP5", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "Ancient DIY'er \"Gregg\"", "helpful": [13, 17], "reviewText": "I upgraded from an old Palm Vx and thought that I could keep my data but also use the Outlook sync features. Don't be fooled like I was, the two systems cannot both be used simultaneously. Because I needed to use outlook, I had to manually transcribe all of my contacts into outlook.  Then because I had my contacts organized into sub folders in outlook, they wouldn't sync! So I shelled out another $50 to Chapura, the software company that sells the sync software to palm, just to make it work like it should have in the first place.  There still are a number of glitches in the sync process such as all of my preferences for font size and screen orientation are lost with every sync which I find so annoying that I try not to sync it unless necessary.  The USB sync cable that charges the unit is a nice idea but it is so poorly designed that if you move the unit during a sync, it looses connection and has to be reset to start over.  For the amount of money I spent on this device, I am extremely disappointed. It looks to me like palm has a short timer attitude about their operating system and they just don't care to make it work, they seem to be more in the business of selling additional software than making the operating system user friendly.  On the positive side, which does little to offset the negative, the screen is bright and readable.  The memory isn't lost if the battery goes dead and the screen is easily changed from portrait to landscape view and the full screen is useable because the input portion can be hidden.  If I had known all of the idiosyncrasies of this unit I would have returned it, but I kept hoping that I could make it work until it was too late.  Maybe I can sell it on ebay.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "Good hardware, lousy software", "unixReviewTime": 1141344000, "reviewTime": "03 3, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A3686O5QPBBSII", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "apo2knight", "helpful": [40, 41], "reviewText": "The last PDA i owned was a Palm m100 and it served it's purpose for two years until it finally failed and wouldn't start anymore.  I went about two years without a PDA and I really missed having information at my finger tips.When I heard about the new Palm T|X I was intrigued by its features and its price point.  I bought one online after doing some reasearch on this PDA.When I received it I also bought a 1GB SD card to put in my music and movies to take with me on a cruise ship for my 10th wedding anniversary.  I used Pocket Tunes to play my  MP3s while working out and while relaxing.  I also downloaded the full FOTR movie encoded in divx and watched it during the ship's \"entertainment\" shows that my wife wanted to watch but I didn't care for (google TCPMP for the freeware movie player, don't get MMPlayer--it sucks).  It perfomed remarkably well all throughout my vacation.When I returned from the cruise, I uploaded photos from my anniversary to the SD card and used the T|X to show pictures to our friends and relatives.  I've also configured Versamail to access my Gmail account so I can access my email anywhere there's a wifi connection.  The only thing I find lacking is the drive mode that the T5 and Life Drive both have.  Compared to my old m100, the T|X is many times better and faster.  I would recommend this PDA to anyone who needs wifi and multimedia capabilities at a reasonalble price.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Wi-Fi and Multimedia Wonder", "unixReviewTime": 1133136000, "reviewTime": "11 28, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A33N3Z9MYSIPRO", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "A Reader \"snailgate\"", "helpful": [18, 19], "reviewText": "I started as a Palm user with their very first purchased at local Staples after I went through two panic states due to misplacing my Daytimer notebook twice in one month.  I have purchased a replacement about every two years since, mostly because my boss is willing to accept it on my expense report.I have loved them all, rarely getting the vary latest model.  I bought the T3 about 2 years ago.  It was a real improvement.  But recently it completely refused to sync with my desktop computer after about a month of being rather fussy.  I changed out the docking stand and it still did not work.  First of April 06, I went for the TX, rather than the T5.  I never used the voice recorder on the T3 so I thought I could do without it.  Other bells and whistles looked to me to be a better combination for my taste, on the TX.Unlike the physician user who said the battery life was too short, the TX seems to have much more battery than the T3.  I had an external battery pack for the T3 and it gave me about 3X before the low power warning.  The TX runs just as long with just its built in battery as the T3 did with the extra battery.  It can use ordinary AA batteries in an external pack, but not as slick as the external battery for the T3.I have been using it for only 3 weeks, and have had none of the glitches others have reported here.  As to the support from Palm--it has been terrible for years.  I learned to rely on user groups and secondary market for answers.The traditional \"Palm\" is on its way into never-never land.  The company has sold off most of the business to others around the world.  Their new business model falls on its knees before MicroSoft and us rebels who prefer the Palm OS can only hope somebody out there will feed us with new versions of the real Palm.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Maybe the last real Palm", "unixReviewTime": 1143590400, "reviewTime": "03 29, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1FGPYJJV9THGG", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "Bad John", "helpful": [15, 28], "reviewText": "Warning! Once you buy it, unless you are trying to buy more software or accessories, there is NO support. No links on their company web page to contact them or any way to download replacement copies of the desktop software. Also, the memory chip reader on my unit is defective, it will not eject the chip and once the chip is accessed the unit will not power off.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "zero support!", "unixReviewTime": 1138665600, "reviewTime": "01 31, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A9JVQLQMDMK68", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "B. Glassman", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "I have been using Palm devices since the very first Palm Pilot. Before that, I used Palm's Graffitti on my Newtons. My phone is a Treo 650. Without question, the T|X is superior to all the rest. Oh, and I use it in combination with a Macintosh, (syncing via BlueTooth, usually) but have used it with Windows XP as well.A hand-held device slim and light enough to fit into virtually any shirt or jacket without being obtrusive, able to communicate via BlueTooth, infrared and Wi-Fi, with a screen that can be rotated 90 degrees, large and crisp enough to permit even my 62-year old eyes to browse web sites and view MP4 video, and with the ability to accept at least 2 gigs of SD memory, this is the device to own unless you are seeking the kind of game capability that only a PlayStation Portable provides.Of course there are cons. I suppose the greatest is the lack of a built-in microphone. But even that has been hacked by a very clever company that offers both a headset with boom mike and a tiny plug-in mic. Competing with the lack of a mic is the fact that the battery is sealed in the case, so that you can't carry another, fully charged, battery as a spare. There are external rechargeables to deal with this, but they are one more thing to remember, or to lose. Another negative is the lack of a Flash player, which makes YouTube and similar sites unusable, unless you know something I am not aware of. Of course there is no camera, either, but it's happy to accept your camera's SD card for either viewing or emailing.These things said, here are some recommendations:If you are going to use it for email from a corporate or university server, spend the necessary bucks on SnapperMail. It's more versatile than the included Versamail. But if possible, consider the mobile view of GMail (Google's free email service.) Not only is it beautifully designed, it's free. I have my other accounts forwarded to GMail and both read and send from there using the browser.TCPMP is a simply astonishing and free media player, with additional audio controls to boost and adjust the sound above what the T|X's controls provided. I am no audiophile, but I have used the T|X with a variety of earphones, including the Sony and Bose noise-cancelling variety on long flights, and simply cannot complain about sound. The only minor complication is that the AAC decoder must be tracked down and installed separately. For reasons of copyright, apparently, it does not come bundled with TCPMP. But a bit of astute Googling should solve that problem.With TCPMP on the T|X and something like the free HandBrake on the Mac or equivalent free software under Windows, one is able to convert one's DVD to a 700 MB file, drop it onto a 1 GB SD card, and take along a movie. Of course the picture is small. In fact, it's far better for viewing a favorite movie than seeing a particular title for the first time. But I own an embarrassing number of media-playback devices, some with larger screens and/or greater capacities, and the size and weight of the T|X trump them all. So much so that I simply passed on the video iPod and will continue to until its screen is significantly larger or I can afford those video goggles that are now available.The latest version of Pocket Tunes is both a fine audio player and your link to Internet radio. Include it in your budget if MP3, playlists, podcasts and streaming audio are important. They are to me, so I wouldn't be without Pocket Tunes.VoIP via the T|X appears to be possible. With the external headset and some new software, others are reporting success. My router is not letting me do that from home, and I have yet to try it elsewhere, but don't be surprised if you hear that people are using their T|Xes as Wi-Fi phones.Finally, (well, there is no \"finally,\" but I have to stop somewhere) I own a Bluetooth keyboard so that I can use the T|X as a sort of substitute for my laptop. They work flawlessly together. Would I try to do a lot of detailed formatting and revision on that 4-inch screen? Of course not. But for sheer text entry, such as a first draft of a paper, it's just fine.So here is the final indicator of how well I like this device: If it were to break, or if I were to lose it, I would buy another. There are very few similar bits of technology I can say that about.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "An Appraisal and Some Recommendations", "unixReviewTime": 1174003200, "reviewTime": "03 16, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A31R3ZYX2OT7FI", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "B H", "helpful": [17, 18], "reviewText": "I have never owned a Palm.  I bought the first Handspring Visor when it came out. I owned three of them and three Clie's.  I always thought they were better that Palm at the time.  Well Handspring and Clie are no more.  I dropped my last Clie and the backlight quit working still works but too expensive to fix.  It was the bomb.  So I use and older model for the past year which suited me fine; so I thought.  I started having issues with that and decided to buy a new Palm.  I hessiatated for awhile to buy one.  I didn't like the fact Palm's didn't have a scroll wheel like Clies.I now have owned the Palm TX for a month now and I could never go back.  Most of my programs worked and I had to upgrade some others.I love the:1.  Widescreen it make reading spreedsheets much easier.  The included Documents To Go is much better than the Quickword I have been using for the past 6 yrs.  You can also see more video and pictures with the Widescreen.2.  The intergrated Palm Desktop.  I was able to use it to convert videos in a reasonable amount of time.  It is not fast but, it is simple and easy to use.3.  Pocket Tunes, it comes with it and it is a great app.  I have used it for a couple of years now.  I recommend the upgrade it's only $30 but, money well spent.  With the upgrade you can play WMA's and OGG file.  Tailor the sound better with more eq options.4.  Isilo a reader app. is a pleasure to use and read in the wide screen format.5. Addit is a nice app that keeps you up to date on the latest news (Rueters)6.  WiFi.  I was skeptical at first but it works well considering your using a Palm.  It is much better the my Clie.  With this feature alone I can now leave my laptop at home.I travel quite a bit so lugging a laptop around can be quite a pain.  Wether by plane or auto I can watch movies, listen to music, read a book, or most importantly kept up on work.As a music player I have to mention I own MiniDisc and a DAP both Sony products and have great battery life.  Sometimes it is not practical to have all these gadgets in your pocket.  I like the sound of the Palm.  The battery life is good but not great.  With  Pocket Tunes and larger SD cards who needs an Ipod.  It is only a matter of time before 4&8 GB cards come out.  Yeah it cost more than an Ipod but I can do more with a Palm; oh yeah the video is better and the battery life is about the same.  Pocket Tunes syncs up well with Windows Media Player.Overall I am very impress the the Palm TX.  I am not disapointed yet with the performance, workmanship of this model.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "The Best Palm Ever!", "unixReviewTime": 1147392000, "reviewTime": "05 12, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1QC7S7UPJL7YX", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "brted", "helpful": [10, 11], "reviewText": "I have had my Palm TX now for about 3 months. I have had a Palm Vx, m515, and now this one, and its capabilities blow the others away. The screen is fantastic. I love the extra space and resolution, plus the landscape mode. Having wifi is a huge plus even though I don't have a wireless network at home or work. With the better processor, this is also super fast. It sorts through 300 records in Smartlist in about a second.Still I had some disappointments:The screen isn't glass like the Vx. This probably makes it less likely to crack, but it makes the grafitti area more likely to be damaged and an overlay, at least in the grafitti area is a must. Even using a protector, I still had problems with grafitti skipping (like an \"o\" might become a \"c\" plus a blob even though I wrote an \"o\") and wound up returning the first one I got after about a month. If you don't bear down, it will skip. If you do bear down you are more likely to damage the screen. I have to take a star off for that.I use a lot of third-party programs and many of them simply don't work or will crash the TX. Generally I can find substitutes, but I still miss some of that and it was an ordeal at the beginning. I don't think \"hacks\" are allowed anymore at all. But anything still being developed works fine. Also I really miss the old grafitti. I couldn't get used to the new version which seemed incredibly slow and clumsy. Fortunately there is a way to get the old version back.I don't see why they couldn't make the silkscreen \"buttons\" customizable like the actual buttons are. In fact you should be able to change the icons. I don't use the Palm for e-mail and the media button is also kind of useless for me. I'd rather have the calculator and search buttons back.The browser has problems. Wikipedia just shows up as a vertical line of letters (there is workaround for this problem documented on Wikipedia, but it only works for that site). Also, if you don't crash while browsing, it isn't uncommon to crash shortly *after* browsing in a different program. Some secure websites simply won't work at all. I have to cut Palm some slack on that since handheld devices can't have browsers as good as a desktop, but being able to turn the screen to landscape should solve most things and it simply doesn't here. There is no excuse for the crashes.Despite the negatives, there were some nice surprises too:I love using the Palm as an MP3 player. Among MP3 players it is bulky, but since I'm carrying it anyway, it really takes no additional space. I use the included pTunes player and bought a 2 GB card with several hundred songs on it and I love it. I use the Palm more than my 20 GB iPod now.It also makes a great video player. Once I figured out the right mix of tools, I was able to put DVD's on another 2 GB card. I can put 8 episodes of my favorite TV shows on one of those cards and it looks great using the free full-screen TCPMP player. People are amazed with that feature. The screen is bigger and has more resolution than a 5G iPod.Battery life is surprisingly good. It's nothing like the Vx which lasted a week or more, but it is as good as the m515 even playing an occasional movie and using the mp3 player.The integration of everything could be better, but that's part of the deal with an open platform. This thing is like an iPhone, only without the phone. And you can buy it today for much less money.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Very Good", "unixReviewTime": 1169337600, "reviewTime": "01 21, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "A1Z4930RTKRTKV", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "Bruno Freitas", "helpful": [12, 12], "reviewText": "I've replaced my Sony Cli&eacute; SJ-33 which I had for almost 4 years with this one....It took me a while to decide among the TX and the LifeDrive.... and after reading a lot of reviews and knowing that I wanted a sleek PDA other then a Bulky mini Hard Drive (AkA Palm LIFEDRIVE)...And I am glad I have done so...Here are some of my opinions as...:- Awesome screen.... A Real good one... You will not be disapointed, specially with the size...- Speed, since I have tested the lifedrive as well.. TX does not have any \"sudden stops\" (1-3sec) as LDrive has...It makes sense since it runs from the ROM/RAM memory instead of a drive...- I have tons of software (usefull and some \"not really\" usefull) which are running perfectly on it... But.. Beware with old software.... Nothing a Hard Reset will not fix it...But usually only the latest versions will not crash the TX (Beyond Contacts, Mini Golf, Sim City, Hp12C, to name just a few which I needed to get the latest version of it...)-  Speaker.... C'mon.. for a Palm, this thing is loud.. !! Alarms and musics as well.... (pocket tunes has Equalizer, and it works !! Very decent sound for a PDA) of course, a Headphone will do a better job...- Wifi, Bluetooth, and many other features already mentioned at any review you have probably read everywhere...- Battery.... I would say it is a good battery... Until you turn the Wi-Fi on.... Then it will just go down the hill pretty quick.... from a score of 1 to 10... 7,5 at this one...- Video plays really smoth on this one..... If you are willing to wait a movie to load at the SD card, you can watch DivX movie at it !!Really Cool....But my regrets go to:- Cover.. What kind of cover is this one ?? Is Palm trying to save money with it ?? You will want to get a decent one...- Cradle !!! Does Palm know what that means... Everytime time they try to bundle less equipment with it... The cable does the job, but.... :-(- Better battery managemet when using Wi Fi ?? (mentioning one more time in case there is someone from PALM reading this thread)- It could have a program bundled with it to manage the folders..... And also, to become a Removable Drive (like the Lifedrive), it would be a good thing as well...Anyway.... Those are some points I think it might help everyone to decide.... But this is a very good PDA...Really pleased and it does the job !! a good one...Way to go Palm, but please present some improvements next time, then you will get a score of 10 \"with class honour\", for now.. It will pass with a score of 9 !!;-)", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Very Good PDA.... Good Deal...", "unixReviewTime": 1140652800, "reviewTime": "02 23, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "ARC5ASW9CUAGP", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "C. Winton \"cwinton\"", "helpful": [23, 23], "reviewText": "I can recommend the TX as a good buy, but with some cautions.  I briefly flirted with switching to a pocket PC, but decided to stick to machines running the Palm OS since that is what I am accustomed to and it is certainly adequate for most of my needs.I purchased my TX as a replacement for a Clie (which was itself a replacement for a Palm).  The Clie proved to be far superior to Palm PDAs of its day, but Sony is now out of the PDA market, which after a bit of shopping around led to my decision to return to Palm.  The TX is a reasonable replacement for the Clie in the sense that it includes all of the same functionality (and has some improvements: larger screen, vertical and horizontal view modes, longer battery life).  The only downside is that it is a bit bulkier.  I knew this when I purchased it and hoped that the added features would compensate, and I feel that they do.  If I only wanted the Clie functionality, the TX would be worth 5 stars; however, the added promise is wireless access and that isn't fully up to snuff.I use a secured wireless network with WEP key, and and am happy to report it is fully supported, so internet access is not a problem area.  As at least one other reviewer has noted, Palm's VersaMail is less than adequate.  My internet provider is Comcast, which is in the list VersaMail supposedly supports.  I can use it to receive email, but even though the VersaMail \"advanced\" configuration indicates authentication support is on, send mail doesn't work.  Comcast lays the blame squarely on Palm, and rightly so, which I think is enough for a one star deduction.  Of course, if you can access email through the web (which I can with Comcast), this is not a make or break issue.  The web browser could be better, but works OK, especially given the screen size.  I don't have a blue tooth enabled phone, so I can't say plus or minus regarding that feature, nor do I do text messaging.  I had Documents to Go on the Clie, and while it's nice to have it on the TX for occasional use, word processing is really something for full size computers. Ditto for music (get an Ipod).Palm's installation software is one of those that insists it knows best, which would probably have been OK on a system that had never had a PDA using Palm OS.  In my case, the setup program insisted on installing in my Clie directory, which resulted in Clie specific programs getting picked up by Sync, which crashed the setup and resulted in the TX being rendered unstable (couldn't sync and had errors on startup).  I got back in control by doing a hard reset on the TX (you have to go to Palm's TX site to get the user manual to find out how) and starting over, this time making sure the Clie installs were not picked up.If you are considering Palm's hardcase, you need to be aware that it has at least one annoying design flaw - you can't get to the stylus without flopping the TX away from the case.  I plan to peruse the after-market to see if anyone has one without this drawback.One final note: the USB cable has itty-bitty plastic alignment ends for plugging into the TX that I'm sure will break off in time.  I've also found that you have to push it in hard prior to sync to make sure the signal gets through.  Perhaps the optional cradle doesn't have this issue.8/14/2012 update: As an FYI, I pounded this thing for over 6 years before it finally called it quits.  Its only maintenance was when I replaced the battery a couple of years ago (a real feat of courage, since the battery is soldered in and not designed to be replaced).  After noodling around for a couple of weeks looking at what kind of device might best replace it, I finally decided none of them could and so just bought myself a new one (there are still some for sale at reasonable prices).  I've been using Blue Tooth via Palm Desktop ver 3.2.2 by ACCESS on Win 7 X64 for Hotsync (and as a result have nothing good to say about BT), but albeit quite slow it did do the job of restoring my data and configuration (hint, you have to turn off the USB Hotsync connection option on Palm Access or you will get a port already in use error when the T|X tries to connect via BT).  The long and short of it is the new T|X is now an absolute clone of the old one.  There are several reasons I decided to stay with this evidently dated Palm technology: 1) the calendar is far better than any I've tried on other devices (and besides it has my travel history on it for many years) 2) its alarm will actually awaken me 3) it crosses time zones easily 4) my contacts list is very easy to peruse and is loaded with useful information on each entry 5) it just isn't that hard to carry in my pocket with my cell phone (which has a lot of the same features, but just isn't as helpful), and anyway the other usual PDA knick knacks occasionally come in handy.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "should have been better", "unixReviewTime": 1139011200, "reviewTime": "02 4, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1B96ZTKVPF1R9", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "Derek A. Wade \"Derek A. Coach Wade\"", "helpful": [27, 31], "reviewText": "I've had this PDA for just over a year, obtaining it as an early birthday present in early April of 2006. In that time I have been nothing but inordinately frustrated with the defects inherent in this device.Defect number one: Video Problems. According to specs, the Palm T/X is supposed to offer video playback. As a football coach, I have literally hundreds of hours of video. I've compressed these files with two different video compression tools, and they play back fine on both of my computers. However, once dragged through the Palm conduit for installation onto the T/X, sound is out of synch and video is choppy. In short; it does not perform as it is supposed to and advertised to.Defect number two: Touch Screen Misalignment. The lower 1/4th inch of the screen does not align the pointer properly. This makes it impossible to write notes, or even to tap out messages using the keyboard, since no matter how carefully you place the stylus, the device records pressure slightly to the side. This makes note taking, document editing, and other routine PDA mechanics into an exercise in frustration. (Indeed, it defeats the purpose of even HAVING a palmtop computer.) Resetting the screen does nothing.Defect number three: Palm's lack of support. After contacting them within six weeks of purchase regarding these problems, Palm's \"answer\" was for me to shell out shipping to send the device in for repair/replacement with no guarantee that they would not turn about and try to foist the problem back onto me as \"misuse\" of some form. (Or the old standby, \"We can't find a problem, sorry.\")Defect number four: Macintosh compatibility. With the Microsoft blunder called \"Vista,\" more and more people are switching to different operating systems. The Mac version of the Palm desktop is barely compatible with the operating system, and some blunders are absolutely inexcusable: color codes do not transfer between iCal and the Palm device, for example. Notes sometimes do not transfer clearly and are either garbled or strung together as one long note. The only thing that somewhat compensates for these screwups is the use of \"The Missing Synch\" to offer cross compatibility. Why third party software should be needed to connect the leading palmtop operating system with the number two desktop computer operating system is beyond my understanding, but it's an extra thirty bucks Mac users need to shell out to get the darn thing to work.Defect number five: Network access. The T/X is billed as a laptop replacement, especially in the wireless computing area. With modern broadband connectivity everywhere, web developers are using more and more graphics and video, things that take time to download. The extremely S-L-O-W wireless network card in the Palm T/X means that it can take several minutes to even load a basic Amazon.com search page, or reference your email. It's both faster and more productive to tote the laptop instead, since the network interface is quicker and the typing generally moves faster than trying to get \"Grafitti 2\" to understand your handwriting.My wife received a Dell Axim as a gift, and the more I played with it to set it up (also requiring Missing Synch, unfortunately, but seeming to work much better with the built in Macintosh applications.), the more I began to like it. Unless I can find a decent cell phone/PDA, my next palmtop computer will be a Dell Axim. Or possibly a notepad and paper, which would still be more productive than the Palm T/X that I stopped using out of frustration several months ago. $299 down the drain.", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "By far the worst PDA I have ever used.", "unixReviewTime": 1179878400, "reviewTime": "05 23, 2007"}
{"reviewerID": "AVLDQY3JWB6HU", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "D. Golden", "helpful": [22, 23], "reviewText": "I think that the Palm TX represents one of the best values in today's world of consumer electronics. It is powerful, fast, has a generous amount of built in storage ( with a SD/ SDIO slot for more ), infrared, and has both Bluetooth and WiFi technologies.This is the 6th Palm device that I have owned and it is by far the best. Aside from performing it's basic PIM / HotSync tasks flawlessly with my iBook, the screen is large enough that I can actually read documents and play games without going blind. Although I own an iPod Video, the TX is much better for sharing photographs.I am also impressed by the quality and usefulness of the basic software package. You can easily surf the web check email ( even .Mac accounts! ) open a variety of documents, view photos, play mp3's, and watch film clips without needing any third party applications. I am particularly pleased by the ease of setup for using the Bluetooth and WiFi functions. The WiFi is completely intuitive, with extremely clear instructions. Whether connecting to your home wireless network or a T Mobile Hot Spot you're up and running in seconds. But what really amazes me was how simple it is to pair my TX with my Motorola V330. I have the T Mobile Unlimited Internet plan and have used my phone with my iBook to get online when I am on the road in places where there is no other internet access available. That combination has  functioned very , very well, but it involves numerous steps that must be followed EXACTLY. However, I found that the nice folks at Palm have already anticipated situations such as this and the setup for the TX is virtually automatic. I can honestly say that I was stunned by the simplicity of the process.I also purchased the Palm Universal Wireless Keyboard ( once again a snap to utilize ) and found that I could use it to write emails while connected to the internet either by Bluetooth or WiFi. In spite of my large, clumsy fingers, I find the keyboard to be highly easy to use. I also purchased the extended warranty, and, as I have found to be the case in the past, the tech support is absolutely first rate!Finally, I must concur with the other reviewers who have written about the occasional performance glitches. Frankly, I have never owned a Palm that didn't have it's little \" moments \",  but  Palm is Mac friendly and I think that the TX delivers so much for the money that I have no problem overlooking the rare hiccup.The TX is well designed, extremely versatile and reasonably priced. If you're in the market for a PDA ( listen up fellow Mac users ) you should give this product a close look.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great features for the price", "unixReviewTime": 1144368000, "reviewTime": "04 7, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A25RYAX840IQEU", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "Dock", "helpful": [12, 13], "reviewText": "Overall this is a good unit and for the price, you have Bluetooth and Wifi. With Bluetooth, you can make a hotsync without having to hook up the unit to your computer (provided your computer is bluetooth of course!); you can also exchange files with your computer or any other Bluetooth device, like a phone. With Wifi, you can surf on the web provided you have a wireless emitter nearby. The Palm comes with a free one-month subscription to the T-Mobile hotspot network.In addition, like all Palm, it is easy to use and the operating system is stable contrary to the Windows Mobile O/S, especially the latest one (2005 I believe). What I like with Palm is that it is easy to use, you don't waste time reading the user's guide for ages before being able to use the main functions.Now the drawbacks:1. The protective cover that comes with it is really cheap, very difficult to install, it ended up in the bin... A pity because the screen is good, fortunately I had a leather case.2. The battery is not replaceable, when it dies, your Palm dies with it. I guess it is not really a problem if the battery is not faulty: my last Palm (3C, a dinosaur now) started to show weakness signs after 5 years, which is OK I guess. After 6 years, my old Palm 3C does hold the charge for a very long time.3. Versamail is not compatible with Hotmail, which is to me the major drawback. I do not know why, if it is Microsoft or Palm at fault, but bottom line the only way to access my hotmail account from the Palm is through Internet and the Hotmail login window and it is not very practical; I guess the lay out is better with versamail.4. I struggled a bit to set-up the Bluetooth hotsync, you have to create a serial port (fictive), the explanations were not very complete, they said to check your computer's manual... I used the serial Port 7, it worked.Despite these drawbacks (which are minor to me, hence 4 stars), I am overall satisfied.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Good value for money", "unixReviewTime": 1137283200, "reviewTime": "01 15, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A2WCFDOCS73PNB", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "Gadgetman", "helpful": [25, 27], "reviewText": "For $300, I believe it is a great buy for all the features that come with Palm TX. I was quite impressed with the bright and vivid display with video and pictures viewing. I was able to set up Wifi with my home wireless network with a snap. The horizontal display mode also helped wireless surfing on a hand-held a pleasure.There were a few minor issues. The multi-media software (video and audio) features are somewhat basic and limited. The Rhapsody music software that came with the Palm CD actually does NOT have the Palm TX device driver included. I contacted technical support and found that many users had the same issue. I would recommend not to use/install Rhapsody. It would be much easier to simply copy your mp3 files to the SD card by using a SD card reader. It worked very nicely with this alternative.Customer support was lousy to say the least. The first technical support person I communicated with did not seem to understand the issues and simply hang up on me when she figured out that she was not able to help.Overall, I am quite satisfied with the unit.", "overall": 4.0, "summary": "Great values with some minor issues", "unixReviewTime": 1132012800, "reviewTime": "11 15, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3SOT3ANV2EJLL", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "iluvcats", "helpful": [20, 34], "reviewText": "I love Palm and wanted WiFi, which worked great.  However, it's slooowwww on large apps like Mapopolis (very speedy on my Palm T3 w/ faster processor).  You can also see a bit of a lag when writing graffiti. Good price if you're new to pda's.BUT, the TX also has a major 'bug' - the 'rotate screen' icon is missing - there is a patch at the Brighthand Forums, but I can't believe Palm would release the TX with this bug!I'm returning the unit because it's slow.  Now considering the Dell X30 624mh, or spring for the Palm LifeDrive.", "overall": 3.0, "summary": "Nice, but slow", "unixReviewTime": 1130025600, "reviewTime": "10 23, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "AI4H1QU8H214H", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "J. Bellin \"analog_j\"", "helpful": [47, 49], "reviewText": "First of all, I had been, as of late, only sporadically using a Zaurus ZR-5000, itself, a neat piece of useful and easy to use electonics.  With a huge, b/w screen you can write on, it had amazing capability for its time, including wi-fi capable -- and this was for an item from the early '90s!However, with its built-in mini-keyboard and large LCD screen, it is relatively large and cumbersome.  I used it primarily for contacts and sometimes for tasks and appointments, but it was really too large and heavy for me to carry around all the time (I don't carry a briefcase and rarely use a shoulder bag.).  Using it for appointments just really didn't make sense if I wasn't going to carry it around.  It had synching capabilities with a desktop, but it was slow and the built-in software was only marginally compatible with Microsoft's products.  My wife has a Psion and, while more up-to-date than the Zaurus, was still in that league.I had been eyeing Microsoft CE products and Palms, but I thought they were expensive for what they did, and I wasn't too thrilled with the Graffiti writing.But finally seeing how streamlined, fast and capable the new ones are, I wanted to investigate.  There are the Microsoft versions such as those put out by HP and Dell, but those are still pretty expensive.  Then there were the Palms that were either high-priced as well, or the less expensive ones which were pretty much good for appointments and contacts.  Not bad, and the new Z22 is a great value for something like that, but the Palm TX seemed, from other online reviews, seemed to be more reliable in terms of build quality than some in the recent past.  Moreover, I have read that the Microsoft-based products tended to crash alot (the computer software has an internal conflict and inadvertently shuts down.).I saw this unit on Amazon for $270 with a short-term offer of a free Palm wireless keyboard.  That sold me, and I knew Amazon offered a 30-day trial anyway.Having used it for about 6 weeks, I can tell you that it's brilliant for the money.  The built-in office programs seemlessly integrate with the real things (and I understand that the software used by Palm is better than Microsoft's own stripped down PDA versions.).  The internet browsing software works very, very well.  It's not as robust as the one on your computer, but you'll be surprised as to how good it is.  Blazer, the browsing software, is selective as to the sophistication of content it will download.  While it's as fast as broadband, for sure, it's faster than my dialup used to be.  There is also an option for text only downloads which is extremely fast.The screen is extremely bright and resolution is quite good.  I use a Sony CRT at home, so I'm used to great color and resolution, but this is quite good.  In sunlight, it's not great.This is not a substitute for a laptop, but for checking email on the go, or doing a quick Google, it's pretty amazing.  We were in a theater a few days ago, and we were trying to figure out the background of an actress.  There happened to be a wireless connection in the house, so I was able to quickly get on the internet and Google the actress and got our answer.As for the memory and processor, it's plenty for most lay-users, unless you're going to download LOTS and LOTS of games.  On the other hand, with the SD card slot, you could load LOTS and LOTS of games on a card or two or three.  The processing speed?  Palm has chosen well for this price range.  The TX cannot multi-task.  When you leave one thing, it will close down when you open up another.  This means the processor does less work.  Because of the uncanny methodology of the browser, the speed of going around the internet is usually good, and has been tested to be faster than the basic Dell model which has a faster processor.  The reason why the Dell seems slower is because the Microsoft operating system is more cumbersome.  It is capable of multi-tasking, but it's greater sophistication results in slower everyday tasks performed on the PDA.  The top of the line Dell is supposed to be terrific and potentially worth it for someone who is doing a lot of sophisticated stuff on their PDA, but it's almost twice the cost of the TX.For those who must have an even faster processer, the Palm Mobile Manager, retailing for $100 more than the TX, has a 33% faster processor and 4gigs of built-in memory (as opposed to the 128megs built-into the TX).For me, the TX is extremely impressive and I don't need the Mobile and I didn't want to spend more money.  Considering the deal I got (w/free keyboard), it was a no-brainer. I have also bought two games for it, Village Sim and Bejeweled 2, and the bright, rich screen is just the ticket for them.And by the way, the Palm wireless keyboard works flawlessly.", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Brilliant Piece of Mid-Priced PDA Engineering", "unixReviewTime": 1145318400, "reviewTime": "04 18, 2006"}
{"reviewerID": "A1T7LV83N38PQ3", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "JB", "helpful": [20, 26], "reviewText": "I love this new Palm TX, the Wifi works flawlessly, the video playback is very good! the sound with a good pair of headphones is excellent. The WiFile program allows you to access folders from your computer wirelessly.Overall this is a excellent PDA, Great video and Audio and Wifi is very fast!!", "overall": 5.0, "summary": "Great Device", "unixReviewTime": 1131148800, "reviewTime": "11 5, 2005"}
{"reviewerID": "A3JV071KO43Q5X", "asin": "B000BI7NHY", "reviewerName": "Jeffrey Pittman \"Jeff\"", "helpful": [20, 26], "reviewText": "Don't really know where to start...tapped on a note today to retrieve tech specs while at a customer site and it shut off.  Started it back up (with the reset button) and it did exactly the same thing.  Routinely needs to be started with the reset hole in the back instead of the power button.  Litters your Outlook notepad and calendar with duplicate entries and you have to figure out which one is current.  Changes all-day Outlook appointments that are \"free\" to \"busy\" (all day).  Hard reset results in a never-ending loop of \"tap here\" to align the stylus/screen that won't let you out.This device has been a major disappointment, especially after the incredibly reliable Zire 71 I \"upgraded\" from for all the cool features of the TX.  I've been trying to convince myself I haven't been had for the two months I've owned it and have finally given up.  Will try to get a few bucks refund out of Amazon, otherwise it's going in the landfill...I can't ethically try to sell this piece of garbage.  Buyer beware.  Maybe you'll get one of the ones all these reviewers are happy with, or maybe you'll get one like mine.  And I thought the Pocket PC platform was flaky!", "overall": 1.0, "summary": "An unreliable obstacle, not a productivity enhancer", "unixReviewTime": 1148256000, "reviewTime": "05 22, 2006"}
